{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sb100\sa100\cf1\lang4105\f0\fs24 Here is the confirmed method for getting glowy. \par
\ul\b\i Note:\ulnone\b0\i0  There may be alternate forms of "credit" for \ul Content\ulnone  badges. See the undetermined section. \par
\ul\b\i Note:\ulnone\b0\i0  \b Any /check status other than Glowing may be unreliable.\b0  If you are reporting a lower status than you should be(faint, strong, etc), do not be concerned, you will still glow once you finish up everything. \par
\ul\b\i Note:\ulnone\b0\i0  Once you are glowing \ul you will be visited eventually by the old man\ulnone . The devs are trickling out old man visits to avoid crashing Dathomir. If you are glowing and not yet visited, you are \b not bugged\b0 . You will be visited. You may have to wait a few days. \par
\ul\b\fs36 Required Badges\ulnone\b0\fs24  \par
\b 1\b0  Profession badge \par
\b 5\b0  \ul Content\ulnone  badges \par
\b 3\b0  \ul Jedi\ulnone  POIs \b ***\b0  \par
\b 5\b0  \ul Easy\ulnone  POIs \b ***\b0  \par
\b 2 \ul\b0 Difficult\ulnone  POIs \b ***\b0  \par
----------------------------------------------------- \par
\b *** \b0 POI requirements may instead be: \par
10 POI badges that include: \par
1 difficult POI \par
1 to 3 Jedi POIs \par
----------------------------------------------------- \par
\ul\b Content Badge Options:\ulnone\b0  \par
Jabba's Themepark \par
Nym's Themepark \par
Rebel Themepark \par
Imperial Themepark \par
2 Warren Badges(Compassion, imperial hero) \par
9 Corvette Badges(Rebel, Neutral, Imperial missions. 3 for each faction) \par
\ul\b Jedi POI Badges:\ulnone\b0  \par
Ben's hutt - Tatooine \par
Jedi Temple - Dantooine \par
Exar Kun's Temple - Yavin \par
\ul\b Difficult POI Badges:\ulnone\b0  \par
Krayt Skeleton - Tatooine \par
Salacc - Tatooine \par
Tusken Pool - Tatooine \par
Krayt Graveyard - Tatooine \par
Lesser Sarlacc - Dathomir \par
\b All other POI explore badges are "easy"\b0  \par
----------------------------------------------------- \par
\ul\b Example of a garanteed route:\ulnone\b0  \par
1 profession badge \par
Jabba's Themepark - Content \par
Nym's Themepark - Content \par
Rebel(or Imperial) Themepark - Content \par
2 Warren Badges - Content \par
3 Jedi POIs \par
Krayt Skeleton POI - dangerous \par
Sarlacc Pit POI - dangerous \par
Escape Pod POI \par
Lars Homestead POI \par
Bottom of the Theed Falls POI \par
Vreni Island Theater POI \par
Rouge Corsec Base POI \par
----------------------------------------------------- \par
\ul\b\i Undetermined Content Badge alternates:\ulnone\b0\i0  \par
These are \ul potential\ulnone  alternates for \ul Content Badges\ulnone . \par
There is not yet enough information to garantee any of these. \par
- Large numbers of profession badges \par
- Holo professions \par
- Badgeless Themeparks giving content credit(Valarian, Nightsister, etc) \par
----------------------------------------------------- \par
Update history: \par
v1.1 - Updated information regarding POI badges and made the explaination clearer. \par
v1.2 - Cleaned up the guide slightly \par
v1.3 - Updated unconfirmed alternative list \par
v1.4 - Updated requirements list based on TC2 feedback \par
v1.5 - Created garanteed route example section \par
v1.52 - Added note about glowing if unlocked before publish 9 or after \par
v1.53 - Made clarification on Undertermined Alternates section \par
v1.54 - Adjusted some wording and expanded the undetermined secion \par
v1.6 - Several minor updates/text changes. Placed a copy of this guide in the Game Guides forum. \par
\ul\i Thanks\ulnone\i0 : Avow, Kevin Spruil, all the wonderful testers on TC, the valuable feedback of TC2 testers. \par
----------------------------------------------------- \par
150)?150:this.scrollHeight)"________________________________ \line\line 'Tess\line - Utess Pero: Master Entertainer, Master Dancer, Master Musician, ID\line - Andria Pasretti: Master Artisan, Master Merchant, Teras Kasi Master\line - Tatiyana Karkuf: Master Medic, Master Combat Medic, Master Doctor \par
\pard\lang1033\f1\fs20\par
\par
\par
Village XP conversion rates:\par
\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\lang4105\f0\fs24 The sith finaly payed me a visit so i checked the conversions of all types of xp i could.\par
Combat XPs \par
Squad Leader xps -> 90->1 \line Weapons xps -- 30->1 \line Combat xps -- 3->1 \line Bounty hunter XPs -> 1->1\par
Crafting XPs \par
Bio Engeneer -- 4:1\line Medicine Crafting -- 5:1 \line Spice Crafting -- 5:1 \line General Crafting -- 8:1 \line Architect -- 35:1\line All others 5:1\par
\line Sense XPs \par
Dancing xps -- 10:1 \line Musician xps -- 10:1 \line Entertainer Healing -- 10:1 \line Image Design -- 7:1 \par
Trapping xps -- 25:1 \line Scout xps -- 8:1 \line Survival xps -- 5:1 \line DNA Sampling -- 3:1\par
Medical xps -- 10:1\line Surveying xps -- 10:1\line Creature handling 9:1\line Merchant xp -- 4:1\line Slicing xps -- 3:1\line Politician -- 3:1\par
\pard\lang1033\f1\fs20\par
Aurillian Village Quest Rewards / Skill Unlocks:\par
\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\lang4105\f0\fs24 NOTE - In 2 separate cases it now appears that by accepting more missions / quests to perform that the reward is increased as well - Check out the new reports (in red) below \par
\par
In an attempt to decide which quest to take in each phase I have been gathering together all of the information I can find regarding the quests / branches unlocked and rewards given. Please note that only a fraction of this information was generated by me - Credit goes to all those people on TC and TC2 that have gathered and posted this info. \par
If you would like to post any corrections or updates on this thread I will try to keep the post updated with all of the latest information. \par
Many thanks for all the updates! - Top post edited 23/8 to reflect the new information \par
Phase \endash  QUEST - BRANCH UNLOCKED- REWARD \par
\par
Phase 1 \endash  Combat \endash  Angry Villagers - Combat Prowess: Ranged Accuracy - Complete missions to unlock branch. Complete extra missions to gain Aurilian banner (flutters in the wind) \par
Phase 1 \endash  Reflex \endash  Distraught villagers - Enhanced Reflexes: Survival - Aurilian Sculpture Part 3/4\par
Phase 1 \endash  Medic/Survey- Aid Station - Heightened Senses: Persuasion - \i\par
\b Cure 5 Villagers to Unlock the Branch\b0  \par
\b Cure 5 More Villagers (10 In Total) to unlock a Necklace with Combat Medicine Experimentation +5\b0  \par
\b Cure 5 More Villagers (15 In Total) to unlock a Plant for the house that needs Watering and Nutriunts\b0  \par
\i0 Phase 1 \endash  Crafting \endash  Clean up crew - Crafting Mastery - Assembly - Aurilian Sculpture Part 4/4\par
\par
Phase 2 \endash  Combat \endash  Raiding Party - Combat Prowess: Melee Speed - Durable lathe: 500 Use melee weapon powerup (+30 speed)\par
Phase 2 \endash  Reflex \endash  Quartermaster - Enhanced Reflexes: Vehicular Control - Focused Crystal that gives +2000 health for 2 hours (Can be used once every 3 days)\par
Phase 2 \endash  Medic/Survey \endash  Construction Forman - Heightened Senses: Luck - Resource containers and an Inorganic or Organic survey tool (NOTE Organics tool =may= have been removed as a reward).\par
Phase 2 \endash  Crafting \endash  Puzzled Engineer - Crafting Mastery: Crafting Techniques \i - Unknown\i0\par
\par
Phase 3 \endash  Combat \endash  Armed Group - Combat Prowess: Melee Accuracy - Power Crystal + (if grouped)\i  \i0 a focused crystal that does +900 to mind for 90mins and can be used once every 4 days\par
Phase 3 \endash  Reflex \endash  Raiding Party - Enhanced Reflexes: Ranged Defense - Limited use item - boosts ranged defense by +10\par
Phase 3 \endash  Medic/Survey \endash  Construction Forman - Heightened Senses: Survey tree - Organics Survey Tool (Note - Organics tool =may= have been removed as a reward)\par
Phase 3 \endash  Crafting \endash  Engineer - Crafting Mastery: Experimentation\i - Unknown\i0\par
\par
Phase 4 \endash  Combat \endash  Village Elder - Combat Prowess: Ranged speed - Aurilian Sculpture Part 1/4\par
Phase 4 \endash  Reflex \endash  Village Elder - Enhanced Reflexes: Melee Defense\i  - Unknown\i0\par
Phase 4 \endash  Medic/Survey- Frenzied Doctor - Heightened Senses: Healing tree\i  - Unknown\i0\par
Phase 4 \endash  Crafting \endash  Chief Engineer - Crafting Mastery: Repair\i  - Aurilian Sculpture Part 3/4\i0\par
\pard\cf0\lang1033\f1\fs20\par
}
 