{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green128\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\f0\fs20 SWGPre-CU\par
Repository Address:  https://opensvn.csie.org/SWGPreCU\par
Packet Documentation\par
\par
Disclaimer:  Nearly ALL of the packets contained within were originally reversed by SWGEMU.  Those packets, having been included in source code that was released as open source, are now considered freely modifiable and copyable, provided that the original source is credited.\par
\par
Those packets are free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify\par
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by\par
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or\par
(at your option) any later version.\par
\par
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the\par
GNU General Public License for more details.\par
\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License\par
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software\par
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA\par
\par
All known opcodes:\par
SOE Opcodes:\par
\par
    SOE_SESSION_REQUEST          = 0x0100,\par
    SOE_SESSION_RESPONSE         = 0x0200,\par
    SOE_MULTI_PKT                = 0x0300,\par
    SOE_NOT_USED                 = 0x0400,\par
    SOE_DISCONNECT               = 0x0500,\par
    SOE_PING                     = 0x0600,\par
    SOE_NET_STATUS_REQ           = 0x0700,\par
    SOE_NET_STATUS_RES           = 0x0800,\par
    SOE_CHL_DATA_A               = 0x0900,\par
    SOE_CHL_DATA_B               = 0x0A00,\par
    SOE_CHL_DATA_C               = 0x0B00,\par
    SOE_CHL_DATA_D               = 0x0C00,\par
    SOE_DATA_FRAG_A              = 0x0D00,\par
    SOE_DATA_FRAG_B              = 0x0E00,\par
    SOE_DATA_FRAG_C              = 0x0F00,\par
    SOE_DATA_FRAG_D              = 0x1000,\par
    SOE_OUT_ORDER_PKT_A          = 0x1100,\par
    SOE_OUT_ORDER_PKT_B          = 0x1200,\par
    SOE_OUT_ORDER_PKT_C          = 0x1300,\par
    SOE_OUT_ORDER_PKT_D          = 0x1400,\par
    SOE_ACK_A                    = 0x1500,\par
    SOE_ACK_B                    = 0x1600,\par
    SOE_ACK_C                    = 0x1700,\par
    SOE_ACK_D                    = 0x1800,\par
    SOE_FATAL_ERR                = 0x1D00,\par
    SOE_FATAL_ERR_REP            = 0x1E00,\par
\par
Login Opcodes:\par
    SMSG_LS_STRING               = 0x0E20D7E9,\par
    SMSG_LS_NUM                  = 0x58C07F21,\par
    SMSG_SERVER_NAMES            = 0xC11C63B9,\par
    SMSG_SERVER_ADDR             = 0x3436AEB6,\par
    SMSG_CHAR_LIST               = 0x65EA4574,\par
    SMSG_CHAR_DEL                = 0x989B0002,\par
    CMSG_CHAR_DEL                = 0xE87AD031,\par
    CMSG_ACCT_VERSION            = 0x41131F96,\par
    SMSG_STATION_SESSION         = 0xAAB296C6,\par
\par
Zone Opcodes:\par
\par
    SMSG_CS_STRING                = 0x0E20D7E9,\par
    SMSG_CS_NUM                   = 0x58C07F21,\par
    CMSG_NOTIFY_SESSION           = 0x31805EE0,\par
    CMSG_DATA_SES_VER             = 0xD5899226,\par
    SMSG_OK_PACKET                = 0xA16CF9AF,\par
    SMSG_CHAR_OPTS                = 0xE00730E5,\par
    CMSG_GEN_CHAR_NAME            = 0xD6D1B6D1,\par
    CMSG_CHECK_CHAR_NAME          = 0x9EB04B9F,\par
    SMSG_APPROVE_NAME             = 0xE85FB868,\par
    CMSG_CREATE_CHAR              = 0xB97F3074,\par
    SMSG_ASSIGN_CHAR_ID           = 0x1DB575CC,\par
    CMSG_LOGIN_CHAR               = 0xB5098D76,\par
    SMSG_SETTING_UNK1             = 0x7102B15F,\par
    SMSG_UNK_INT900               = 0x487652DA,\par
    SMSG_NEW_MAIL                 = 0xD72FE9BE,\par
    SMSG_LOAD_TERRN               = 0x3AE6DFAE,\par
    CMSG_OBJ_PRELOAD              = 0x2E365218, \par
    SMSG_OBJ_PRELOAD              = 0x08A1C126,\par
    SMSG_OBJ_INIT                 = 0xFE89DDEA,\par
    SMSG_OBJ_UPDATE               = 0x68A75F0C,\par
    SMSG_OBJ_FINISH               = 0x2C436037,\par
    SMSG_OBJ_PREFINISH            = 0x0BDE6B41,\par
    SMSG_OBJ_LINK                 = 0x56CBDE9E,\par
    CMSG_LOAD_READY               = 0x43FD1C22,\par
    SMSG_LOAD_READY               = 0x43FD1C22,\par
    SMSG_POS_UPDATE               = 0x1B24F808,\par
    CMSG_POS_UPDATE               = 0x3F360154,\par
    SMSG_FACTION_STATE            = 0x08A1C126,\par
    AMSG_INT_PACKET               = 0x80CE5E46,\par
    AMSG_TEL_PACKET               = 0x84BB21F7,\par
    AMSG_CT_PACKET                = 0x3C565CED,\par
    AMSG_CTF_PACKET               = 0x88DBB381,\par
    SMSG_SYSMSG_PACKET            = 0x6D2A6413,\par
    SMSG_SEND_EFFECT\tab\tab     = 0x8855434A,\par
    SMSG_CELL_POS_UPDATE\tab     = 0xC867AB5A,\par
    MMSG_DELTA\tab\tab\tab     = 0x12862153,\par
    MMSG_TIME\tab\tab\tab     = 0x2EBC3BD9,\par
\par
// General packet format:  ALL packets start out with 3 uint16.  They are, in order:\par
0x09 \endash  Opcode.  In this case, SOE_CHL_DATA_A -- This was originally handled by the ByteBuffer constructor in nearly all cases.\par
0x?? \endash  Indicates the server sequence of this object.\par
0x?? \endash  Indicates the operand this packet is intended to modify.\par
\page\par
Incoming packet -- SOE SESSION REQUEST:\par
\par
0x00 0x01 // SOE_SESSION_REQUEST\par
0x00 0x00 // Sequence\par
0x00 0x02 // World Update\par
0x?? 0x?? 0x?? 0x?? // Connection ID - int\par
0x00 0x00 0x01 0xF0 // Default max packet size.  Or, possibly, max packet size from last session.\par
\par
To be sent when receiving a packet with opcode 1 from the client. In order.  LOGIN SERVER SPECIFIC\par
SOE Session Response Packet.\par
\par
0x00 0x02 // SOE_SESSION_RESPONSE\par
0x?? 0x?? 0x?? 0x??  // The connection ID we received from the client in it's SOE_SESSION_REQUEST packet.\par
0x?? 0x?? 0x?? 0x??  // INT -- CRC seed for this session.\par
0x02 0x01 0x04 // Unknown data.\par
0x00 0x00 // Unknown short.\par
INT max packet size.\par
0x00 0x00 0x00 // Compression + CRC flags.\par
\par
SOE Login Server Packet.\par
0x00, 0x09 // SOE packet\par
0x00, 0x00 // Server sequence\par
0x00, 0x19, // DATA_A_MULTI_PKT\par
0x19, // First packet size\par
0x02, 0x00, // Opcode: World Update\par
0xE9, 0xD7, 0x20, 0x0E, // Packet CRC: LoginServerString\par
0x11, 0x00, // Length of string\par
0x4C, 0x6F, 0x67, 0x69, 0x6E, 0x53, 0x65, 0x72, 0x76, 0x65, 0x72, 0x3A, 0x32, 0x39, 0x34, 0x31, 0x31,\par
// Login_erver:29411\par
\par
0x0A, // Next packet size.  \par
0x02, 0x00, // World update\par
0x21, 0x7F, 0xC0, 0x58, // CRC: LoginServerID\par
0xE3, 0x72, 0x00, 0x00, // INT port value.  72E3 = 29411\par
0x00, 0x00, 0x00 // Footer.  Compression + crc.\par
\page PacketBuildObjInit \endash  Initialization of a mobile object.\par
\{\par
Opcode:  SOE_CHL_DATA_A;\tab\tab Short\par
Must have a sequence.  \tab\tab\tab Short\par
Operand: Object Update  \tab\tab Short\par
Packet CRC: SceneCreateObjectByCRC\tab Int\par
Object ID.\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Long\par
Orientation data:\par
North\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
South\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
East\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
West\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
Position data:\par
X\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
Z\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
Y\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Float\par
Object CRC\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Int\par
Unknown\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Byte\par
\}\par
\cf2\par
\cf0 The format below belongs to ALL Creo and Play packets.\par
This can be defined as the "header" of these packets.\par
NOTE:  This "header" is defined as what it is, BEFORE any modifications are added in due to fragmenting / multipacketing.\par
\par
Opcode: SOE_CHL_DATA_A\tab\tab\tab Short\par
Sequence\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Short\par
\cf1 Object Update\tab\tab\tab\tab Short\par
Packet CRC:  Baselines Message\tab Int\par
\cf0 Object ID\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Long\par
Packet Name\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab byte array -- reversed.\par
Packet subtype (3, 6, 8, 9, etc)\tab byte\par
Packet size (hex)\tab\tab\tab\tab Int\par
Object Operand Count.  \tab\tab\tab Short\par
\par
Every initializing Creo, Play, RCNO, IHNO, WEAO, etc. etc. packet has this header.\par
\page CREO1 SPECIFIC \endash  Has 4 variables, Operand count of 4.\par
\par
Variable 1:  Bank Credits\tab\tab Int\par
Variable 2:  Inventory Credits\tab Int\par
Variable 3:  HAM\par
Format:\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Int "9"\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Int "9"\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab 9 ints -- represent each HAM's max value.\par
\par
Variable 4:  Skill list.\par
Format:  Similar to the HAM.\tab\tab Int Size of the skill list.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Int Number of skills we are sending.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Loop through the list:  UTF string of each skill name.\par
Comp + CRC\par
\page\par
CREO3 SPECIFIC.  Has Operand count of 12 (in hex, == 18), 18 variables. \par
\par
Variable 1:  Unknown.  Hardcoded to uint32 with value 16256 (0x9AFF)\par
Variable 2:  String containing either \ldblquote species\rdblquote  or \ldblquote mob/creature_name\rdblquote   Format:  uint16 containing length of the string, followed by ascii string.\par
\par
4 bytes of unknown data.  Probably spacing which follows the string.\par
\par
Variable 3:  Race / Species name.  Format:  uint16 of the length of the string, followed by the string.  If there is no CRC, this is used.  Otherwise, a uint16 value of 0 is put in the packet.\par
\par
Variable 4:  Name of the player.  Format:  uint32 of the length of the character\rquote s FULL name, followed by unicode string of the character\rquote s full name.\par
\par
Variable 5:  Appearance data.  Also a string, which is encoded.  (See Core 1 for details on appearance data encoding.)  Format:  uint16 containing the length of the appearance data string, followed by ascii formatted appearance data.\par
\par
Variable 6: Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 1.\par
Variable 7: Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 8: Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 9: Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 128.\par
Variable 10:  Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 11:  Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 12:  Unknown uint32.  Core 1 hardcoded 3000.\par
Following this is a byte flag.  Core 1 hardcoded to \ldblquote true\rdblquote .\par
Variable 13:  Posture.  Format:  uint8 byte for the posture, uint8 0 value spacer.\par
Variable 14:  Target.  Uint64 character ID.  For the creation Creo3, this will always be 0, as the object we\rquote re creating cannot already have a target.\par
Variable 15:  Height of the object.  Floating point variable.\par
Variable 16:  uint32 containing current value of the player\rquote s Battle Fatigue.\par
Variable 17:  uint64 containing the current bitmask of the player\rquote s State (or States).\par
Variable 18:  HAM wounds.  Format:  2 uint8\rquote s, both hardcoded to 9.  (Probably, as in the creo1:  9 ham bars, updating all 9.)\par
For each Ham bar, send a uint32 containing the number of wounds for \ldblquote that\rdblquote  ham bar.\par
Packet footer:  Append 8 bit compression flag, and 16 bit CRC.\par
\page CREO 4 specific.  Operand count = 14. If in hex, == 20.\par
\par
Variable 1:  Unknown float.\par
Variable 2:  Unknown float.\par
Variable 3:  HAM encumberances.  Format:  Send 2 uint32 counters indicating the number of encumberances we\rquote re setting.  (Core 1 had 3 and 3.)\par
For each encumberance, send a uint32 indicating the encumberance value we\rquote re setting on that ham bar.  TOFIX \endash  Encumberances existed on all 9 ham bars, not just 3, didn\rquote t they?\par
\par
Variable 4:  Skill mods.  Format:  uint32 containing the size of the skill mod list.  (A.K.A. The number of skill mods we\rquote re sending.)  Next, an unknown uint32, hardcoded to 0 in Core 1.  Next, for each skill mod in the list, send:  a uint8 hardcoded to 0, a uint16 specifying the length of the skill mod string, the ascii skillmod string, a uint64 indicating the skillmod \ldblquote value\rdblquote .\par
\par
Variable 5:  Unknown float.  Hardcoded to 1.0 in Core 1.\par
Variable 6:  Player\rquote s normal acceleration rate.  Hardcoded to 1.0 in Core 1.\par
Variable 7:  Unknown uint64 / float.  Hardcoded to 0 in Core 1.\par
Variable 8:  Player\rquote s normal running speed (float).  Hardcoded to 5.376 in Core 1.\par
Variable 9:  Unknown float.  Hardcoded to 0.453786 in Core 1.\par
Variable 10:  Unknown float.  Hardcoded to 0.0125 in Core 1.\par
Variable 11:  Unknown float.  Hardcoded to 1.0 in Core 1.\par
Variable 12:  Unknown float.  Hardcoded to 1.549 in Core 1.\par
Variable 13:  Unknown float.  Hardcoded to 0.75 in Core 1.\par
Variable 14:  Unknown uint64 / float.  Hardcoded to 0 in Core 1.\par
\par
Packet footer:  uint8 compression flag, uint16 CRC.\par
\page CREO 6 SPECIFIC.  Operand count: 24.  If in hex, == 36.\par
\par
Variable 1:  Current Defender (Current target?)  Includes a counter for updates to this.  Format:  uint32 update counter, followed by uint64 player/object ID.\par
\par
Variable 2: uint16.  Consider level of this object.\par
Variable 3:  Music or Dance type string currently being performed.  Format:  uint16 size of the string, followed by ascii name of the song/dance skill being performed.\par
\par
Variable 4:  Mood string of the character.  Format:  uint16 string size, unicode? Mood string.\par
\par
Variable 5:  uint64 WEAO ID.  (ID of the currently equipped weapon?)  Hardcoded in Core 1 as Player ID + 5.\par
\par
Variable 6:  uint64 Unknown (possibly Group ID).  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 7:  uint64 Unknown.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 8:  uint64 Unknown.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 9:  uint32 Unknown.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 10:  uint64 Unknown.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 11:  uint8 Mood ID\par
Variable 12:  uint32 Unknown.  Guild ID?  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 13:  uint32 Unknown.  Guild ID?  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 14:  Current HAM.  Format:  uint32 Number of Ham Bars in the update (9).  Uint32 Update counter (9 in the original Creo 6).  For each ham bar, send uint32 current HAM.\par
Variable 15:  Max HAM.  Same format as above.\par
Variable 16:  \ldblquote Equipment\rdblquote  list.  Format:  uint32 number of Equipment objects sending.  Uint32 Update counter for the Equipment list.\par
For each Equipment item, send:  uint16 spacer (0), uint32 unknown, hardcoded 4.  uint64 Equipment item ID (calculated as player ID + an offset), uint32 item CRC.\par
6 items in Variable 16 in Core 1 Creo 6 code.  In order:\par
Weapon:  Offset:  +5. \tab\tab CRC: 0x70B79711\par
Datapad:  Offset: +3.  \tab\tab CRC: 0x73BA5001\par
Inventory: Offset: +1. \tab\tab CRC: 0x3969E83B\par
Player Bank: Offset: +4.  \tab CRC: 0x70FD1394\par
Player Missions: Offset: +2.\tab CRC: 0x3D7F6F9F\par
Player Hair:  Offset: +8.\tab CRC: 0x???????  Calculated based on what hair the player is wearing.\par
\par
Next:  a final uint16 spacer.\par
Packet footer:  uint8 compression, uint16 CRC.\par
\page PLAY 3 SPECIFIC: Operands:  B (translates to 11 in decimal).\par
\par
Variable 1:  uint32 unknown.  Hardcoded as 0x3F800000 in Core 1.\par
Variable 2:  String ID table string.  Format:  uint16 string size, unicode \ldblquote string_id_table\rdblquote\par
Next several paramaters unknown.\par
\par
Variable 3:  Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 4:  Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 5:  Unknown uint16.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 6:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 4.\par
Variable 7:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 8:  Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 9:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0x80000000\par
Variable 10: Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 4.\par
Variable 11: Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 12: Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.\par
\par
Variable 13:  Player\rquote s title.  Format:  uint16 string length, unicode title string.\par
\par
Variable 14:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0x0000059B\par
Variable 15:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0x001FEFD2\par
Variable 16:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0x0000001E (== 30.  Unit type???)\par
\par
Packet footer:  uint8 compression, uint16 crc.\par
\page PLAY 6 SPECIFIC:  Packet is almost totally unknown.\par
Operand count:  2.\par
\par
Variable 1:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 61.\par
Variable 2:  Unknown uint8.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Packet Footer:  uint8 compression, uint16 crc.\par
\page PLAY 8 SPECIFIC: Operands:  7\par
\par
Variable 1:  Skill experience levels.\par
Format:  uint64 number of experience values.\par
For each experience value, append:  uint8 spacer (0), uint16 experience string length, ascii experience string, uint32 experience value.\par
\par
Variable 2:  Waypoints.  (Does not appear to work in Core 1.)\par
Format:  uint64 number of waypoints.\par
For each waypoint, append:  uint8 spacer, uint64 ID of the character owning the waypoint, uint32 unknown value (0), float waypoint x, float waypoint z, float waypoint y, uint32 unknown (0), uint32 unknown (0), uint32 planetCRC, uint32 length of waypoint name, unicode waypoint name, uint64 waypoint object ID, uint8 always on flag, uint8 active flag.\par
\par
Variable 3: Current Force.  Uint32.  No update counter on this object.\par
Variable 4: Max Force.  Uint32.\tab No update counter on this object.\par
Several unknown paramaters follow:\par
Uint32 hardcoded at 5.\par
Uint64 hardcoded at 14.\par
Uint8 spacer / flag / who knows, hardcoded 0.\par
Uint32 hardcoded at 5.\par
Uint64 hardcoded at 14.\par
\par
Uint8 spacer / flag / who knows, hardcoded 0.\par
\par
Variable 5:  Quest list.  Format:  uint64 number of quests.\par
For each quest:  uint8 spacer, uint32 quest CRC, uint32 quest status.\par
\par
Variable 6:  Unknown uint32, hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 7:  \cf2 // Unk, maybe a list?\par
\cf0\tab packet << (uint8)1 << (uint32)0 << (uint8)0x64 << (uint8)0xEA << (uint16)0;\par
\par
Packet footer:  uint8 compression, uint16 crc.\par
\page PLAY 9 SPECIFIC:  Operands:  19.  If Hex, == 25.\par
\par
Variable 1:  Skill Ability List.  \par
Format:  uint64 number of skill abilities.  For each skill ability, append to packet uint16 skillAbility string length, unicode skillAbility\par
\par
Variable 2:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 3:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 4:  Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 5:  Schematics.  Maybe.  Format:  uint32 number of schematics.  Uint32 schematic counter.  For each schematic, send uint8 schematic string length, unicode schematic string.\par
\par
Variable 6:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 7:  Unknown uint32.  Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 8:  Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.  Commented as \ldblquote unknown list\rdblquote .\par
Variable 9:  Unknown uint64.  Hardcoded 0.  Commented as \ldblquote unknown list\rdblquote .\par
Variable 10:  Food fullness.  Format:  uint32 current food fullness, uint32 max food fullness (always 100).\par
Variable 11:  Drink fullness.  Format:  uint32 current drink fullness, uint32 max drink fullness (always 100).\par
Variable 12:  Unknown.  Pair of uint32\rquote s, First hardcoded 0, second hardcoded 64.\par
Variable 13:  Unknown uint64. Hardcoded 0.\par
Variable 14:  unknown uint32. Hardcoded 64.\par
Variable 14:  uint32 Jedi flag.  0x00 = Not a Jedi, 0x02 = Jedi.\par
Packet Footer:  uint8 compression, uint16 crc.\par
\page\ldblquote The Delta Packet\rdblquote .\par
\par
Usage:  The Delta Packet tells the client \ldblquote Hey, change XX value to be YYY\rdblquote .\par
\par
General format of a Delta packet:\par
Operand count (almost always 5).\par
Opcode2 == MMSG_DELTA (0x12862153) uint32\par
Uint32 ID of the Object we are updating.  For Creo, this is the Player ID.  For Play, this is the Player ID + a pre-determined Player Offset.  Etc, etc for weapons, hair, datapad, etc.\par
\par
\par
Uint64 ID of the Packet structure being updated. Example:  PLAY\par
Uint8 Packet ID of the above packet. Example:  8\par
\par
Uint32 Size of this packet in hex bytes.\par
Uint16 Number of updates to the above packet structure contained in this packet.\par
\par
For each update:\par
Uint16 The variable ID we are changing.\par
If the variable we are changing is a list, we need uint32 number of updates to this list.\par
If the variable has an update counter, we need a uint32 Update counter.\par
If the variable is a list, we need uint8 size of the sub-variable to update.\par
If need a sub variable:  send it as a uint16.  (EG:  Ham does.)\par
Variable format (depending on what we\rquote re updating) the new value to put in that variable.\par
End looping through number of updates.\par
\par
Packet footer: uint8 compression, uint16 crc.  (May or may not be here.)\par
\page Play Object Initialization Packet.  This \ldblquote creates\rdblquote  the Player object.\par
\par
packet.opcode(SOE_CHL_DATA_A);\par
    packet.sequence(sequence);\par
    packet << (uint16)5;\par
    packet.opcode2(SMSG_OBJ_INIT);\par
\par
    // CharID (UINT64)\par
    packet << (ObjID+ a pre-determined PLAYER_OFFSET);\par
\par
    // Orientation (FLOAT)\par
    packet << (float)0;\par
    packet << (float)0;\par
    packet << (float)0;\par
\par
    // UNK\par
    packet << (uint16)0x00 << (uint8)0x80 << (uint8)0x3F;\par
\par
    // Player Position (FLOAT)\par
    packet << (float)0;\par
    packet << (float)0;\par
    packet << (float)0;\par
\par
    // Object CRC\par
    packet << (uint32)0x619BAE21;\par
\par
    packet << (uint8)0x00; //byte flag, affects unknown.\par
\par
    //packet << (uint8)0x00 << (uint16)0x00; Compression + CRC\par
\page Play Link State Packet:  This packet defines the link state of another object on the Player.  Needs to be sent whenever the player wants to equip or unequip an item, at least.\par
\par
\par
    packet.opcode(SOE_CHL_DATA_A);\par
    packet.sequence(sequence);\par
    packet << (uint16)4; // Opcount\par
    packet.opcode2(SMSG_OBJ_LINK);\par
    packet << itemId; // The id of this particular object.\par
    packet << parentId; // The id of the player we\rquote re linking it to.\par
    packet << (uint32)linkState; // Appears to generally be either Equip or Unequip.\par
\par
    //packet << (uint8)0x00 << (uint16)0x00; // comp + crc\par
\page Play \endash  BuildPlayClose packet.  Indicates that we are done \ldblquote creating\rdblquote  the Player object for the client.\par
\par
    packet.opcode(SOE_CHL_DATA_A);\par
    packet.sequence(sequence);\par
    packet << (uint16)2; // Operand\par
    packet.opcode2(SMSG_OBJ_FINISH);  // We\rquote re done creating this:\par
    packet << (ObjID+PLAYER_OFFSET);  // uint64 \endash  Player ID + predetermined offset.\par
\par
    \cf2 //packet << (uint8)0x00 << (uint16)0x00; // comp + crc\par
\cf0\page Packet opcode strings version 1.  Original source:  Nelk.\par
\pard\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
PlaybackActionTemplate    139876588\par
WatcherActionTemplate    1686940613\par
TimerPlaybackActionTemplate    623643172\par
StopActionTemplate    145371025\par
BaseWatcher    840681348\par
PlaybackAction    596321956\par
WatcherAction    3679226022\par
TimerPlaybackAction    1216529927\par
PassthroughPlaybackAction    941345063\par
Sound2    3820199393\par
Sound2d    1965101472\par
Sound3d    2805518460\par
SoundTemplate    2493183880\par
Sound2dTemplate    1898437093\par
Sound3dTemplate    4055333250\par
ForceFeedbackEffectTemplate    1288241258\par
Object    3474813746\par
TangibleObject    3335659148\par
Scene    1139941813\par
GroundScene    1259779807\par
NetworkScene    2284437457\par
CreatureObject    29990564\par
Extent    2739451456\par
BoxExtent    3899581653\par
DetailAppearance    424199883\par
Appearance    3256884407\par
SkeletalAppearance2    3941279143\par
CallbackReceiver    987893283\par
ClientObject    2407789610\par
Controller    1451889799\par
CreatureController    1499990732\par
Dynamics    1835664709\par
VehicleHoverDynamics    3699261360\par
WeaponObject    2910350101\par
PlayerObject    594400956\par
ObjectTemplate    1870174545\par
SharedWeaponObjectTemplate    2798305519\par
RemoteCreatureController    3830678839\par
HardpointObject    564322160\par
SharedCreatureObjectTemplate    3866549535\par
exception    4045779873\par
Connection    2416448046\par
GameNetworkConnection    1297731955\par
ClientController    2735280162\par
NetworkController    22899554\par
ClientMissionObject    1992566760\par
ClientWaypointObject    713236611\par
PlayerCreatureController    674200725\par
PlayerShipController    2918802218\par
ShipObject    2034796776\par
SpatialSubdivisionHandle    1340820507\par
Shader    2019187662\par
StaticShader    1132035340\par
SpriteAppearance    3709342970\par
ProceduralTerrainAppearance    2881412759\par
IoWin    2942732079\par
TestIoWin    130534768\par
SplitMeshTest    2485901590\par
WaterTest    3627690255\par
SetTextureTest    1382945457\par
LodShaderTest    1293789161\par
JgrillsTest    2624482906\par
TimeOfDayTest    3136865979\par
DynamicNormalMapTest    1103873009\par
VertexBufferBaseIterator    4146809550\par
VertexBufferWriteIterator    1789880168\par
ShadowVolumeTest    1521561510\par
SceneEndBaselines    742613047\par
SharedShipObjectTemplate    1254837833\par
IntangibleObject    3178238000\par
CellObject    1920583358\par
GameNetworkMessage    3613824909\par
ClientSpaceTerrainAppearance    191602705\par
Camera    620007738\par
GameCamera    819912248\par
ShipWeaponBarrelDynamics    3689334577\par
ShipController    1978616160\par
RemoteShipController    2765407559\par
WingDynamics    155792569\par
FlyByCamera    231571900\par
SharedObjectTemplateClientData    669832051\par
ClientDataFile    3872981711\par
SharedObjectTemplate    1668953787\par
ObjectNotification    3232980169\par
ClientProceduralTerrainAppearance    576664228\par
TextAppearance    3174635074\par
FadingTextAppearance    1519281825\par
CockpitStage    1489152900\par
CockpitLeaveStage    291307884\par
ThirdPersonStage    3013039880\par
HyperspaceIoWin    2267327401\par
CustomizationVariable    449983579\par
RangedIntCustomizationVariable    963439677\par
ZoneMapObject    840805598\par
RenderWorldCamera    4107966096\par
CockpitCamera    2029851017\par
AppearanceTemplate    3850726572\par
SpaceTerrainAppearanceTemplate    4171874190\par
ShaderPrimitive    3227788656\par
DustAppearance    1344696814\par
SpaceDeath    2249770526\par
SimpleDynamics    3641531793\par
ProjectileDynamics    3442052311\par
SlotRule    537187478\par
SlotCustomizationVariable    1787741266\par
Universe    48711458\par
ClientUniverse    3710562554\par
PaletteColorCustomizationVariable    928172890\par
StartTrailsAction    350781712\par
NetworkHandler    1336419109\par
ClientEffect    3313029782\par
PositionClientEffect    3863890021\par
ObjectClientEffect    30278535\par
UseLightningAction    2354736098\par
UseLightningActionTemplate    2786725501\par
ThrowSwordAction    1597828105\par
ThrowSwordActionTemplate    2911430889\par
TemporaryAttachedObjectAction    1325066436\par
TemporaryAttachedObjectActionTemplate    175454911\par
StopTrailsActionTemplate    2906908262\par
StartTrailsActionTemplate    3498643148\par
PlaySkeletalAnimationAction    2634159989\par
PlaySkeletalAnimationActionTemplate    2674077031\par
PlayParticleSystemActionTemplate    979857281\par
PlayParticleSystemAction    765978853\par
HomingTargetActionTemplate    2968804358\par
HardpointTargetAction    4159533970\par
HardpointTargetActionTemplate    3500385529\par
GrenadeLobActionTemplate    1646786389\par
TurretObject    628943437\par
InstallationObject    3858591664\par
FireTurretActionTemplate    2703641680\par
FireProjectileAction    442062533\par
FireProjectileActionTemplate    4134775216\par
ClientWeaponObjectTemplate    2538656534\par
WaitForBoltActionTemplate    307395062\par
FireSetupActionTemplate    422876763\par
FaceTargetActionTemplate    3625594629\par
CloneWeaponActionTemplate    3979943831\par
ChangeScaleActionTemplate    4144671035\par
ChangePostureActionTemplate    3439397905\par
ArcTargetActionTemplate    1393295015\par
AlignToHardpointActionTemplate    4071998252\par
Projectile    2694958268\par
ShipProjectile    2210697563\par
NonTrackingProjectile    777788417\par
SharedTangibleObjectTemplate    80162764\par
TerrainObject    2246239193\par
TrackingProjectile    2011575541\par
DataResource    3409355402\par
Property    958110025\par
StateDynamics    524553442\par
SunTrackingObject    4241772427\par
SharedIntangibleObjectTemplate    3736768433\par
SharedManufactureSchematicObjectTemplate    2709254731\par
ClientManufactureSchematicObjectTemplate    4117531031\par
ClientIntangibleObjectTemplate    709427540\par
SharedWaypointObjectTemplate    2914100980\par
ClientWaypointObjectTemplate    1446258517\par
SharedVehicleObjectTemplate    3314082652\par
ClientVehicleObjectTemplate    2405984891\par
SharedUniverseObjectTemplate    2656762411\par
ClientUniverseObjectTemplate    1709144970\par
ClientTangibleObjectTemplate    4282560109\par
SharedStaticObjectTemplate    890548695\par
ClientStaticObjectTemplate    76456494\par
ClientShipObjectTemplate    3401635348\par
SharedResourceContainerObjectTemplate    974929744\par
ClientResourceContainerObjectTemplate    3517750755\par
SharedPlayerObjectTemplate    2515529786\par
ClientPlayerObjectTemplate    2759189443\par
SharedMissionObjectTemplate    323120507\par
ClientMissionObjectTemplate    1503847516\par
SharedInstallationObjectTemplate    800521100\par
ClientInstallationObjectTemplate    2478053396\par
SharedGuildObjectTemplate    2029533449\par
ClientGuildObjectTemplate    443319527\par
SharedGroupObjectTemplate    3206232612\par
ClientGroupObjectTemplate    3717171146\par
SharedFactoryObjectTemplate    1904224185\par
ClientFactoryObjectTemplate    996191902\par
ClientCreatureObjectTemplate    502488254\par
SharedConstructionContractObjectTemplate    1532124886\par
ClientConstructionContractObjectTemplate    256189706\par
ClientObjectTerrainModificationNotification    2580756382\par
SharedBuildingObjectTemplate    1643792076\par
ClientBuildingObjectTemplate    2592065389\par
SharedBattlefieldMarkerObjectTemplate    558969982\par
ClientBattlefieldMarkerObjectTemplate    3403781837\par
DynamicDebrisObject    2063775932\par
ShipObjectDestruction    2545602015\par
PlayerShipTurretController    3719834903\par
MessageQueueShipHit    2259491664\par
NoBuildNotification    1775158186\par
ClientNoBuildNotification    3271785850\par
WanderController    2848134528\par
DynamicMeshAppearance    3542931616\par
ClientPathObjectNotification    701441168\par
ClientPathObject    2818677898\par
ClientBattlefieldMarkerOutlineObjectNotification    1361519442\par
ClientBattlefieldMarkerOutlineObject    1829099829\par
ClientStructureFootprintObjectNotification    132704285\par
ClientStructureFootprintObject    3982198387\par
MessageQueueResourceWeights    2826284905\par
MessageQueueDraftSlotsQueryResponse    903599514\par
MessageQueueObjectMenuRequest    378514195\par
MessageQueueStringList    2744945116\par
MessageQueueNpcConversationMessage    4107377721\par
MessageQueueStopNpcConversation    1243325355\par
MessageQueueStartNpcConversation    2507923975\par
MessageQueueSocial    2732575264\par
MessageQueueSpatialChat    3824677583\par
MessageQueueCombatSpam    1269080413\par
MessageQueueSecureTrade    82346135\par
MessageQueueNetworkId    2200477005\par
MessageQueueMissionGenericResponse    2362881377\par
MessageQueueMissionDetailsResponse    612281975\par
MessageQueueHarvesterResourceData    1043099458\par
ManufactureSchematicObject    2304620222\par
ClientSynchronizedUi    4275896099\par
SkeletalAppearanceTemplate    3393629354\par
LightsaberAppearance    614456479\par
CustomizationDataProperty    1846590708\par
LightsaberAppearanceTemplate    252224159\par
CollisionProperty    3438652739\par
ClientCollisionProperty    1776314696\par
SharedCellObjectTemplate    2003275122\par
ClientCellObjectTemplate    4151055663\par
ClientObjectTemplate    3893961532\par
TransformModifier    3217473203\par
AlignmentTransformModifier    2183525787\par
RiderSpineTransformModifier    3247732033\par
UniverseObject    4288733515\par
GroupObject    1552788934\par
ClientEffectTemplate    3732150589\par
TaskConnection    3809369056\par
ConnectionServerConnection    2827870631\par
LoginConnection    2294802292\par
SharedDraftSchematicObjectTemplate    3804534123\par
WaterTestAppearance    926033302\par
VertexBufferReadWriteIterator    4064735714\par
StructurePlacementCamera    209769410\par
FreeChaseCamera    1957407439\par
ShipTurretCamera    2052770892\par
DebugPortalCamera    1226505821\par
FreeCamera    1850170273\par
Light    2439877399\par
GameLight    3323947427\par
MessageQueueGenericResponse    278093382\par
MessageQueueGenericIntResponse    4043525335\par
MessageQueueDraftSlots    3278498762\par
MessageQueueDraftSchematics    834656099\par
NebulaShellShaderPrimitive    3087719658\par
ParticleEffectAppearance    3616346480\par
GlowAppearance    3422709010\par
ClientClearCollidableFloraNotification    3960987185\par
SharedObjectTemplateInterface    2916970231\par
ClientSharedObjectTemplateInterface    1515917103\par
AsteroidDynamics    4059297941\par
Missile    857185398\par
Countermeasure    2418093769\par
HomingTargetAction    4287010299\par
GrenadeLobAction    2838371733\par
WaitForBoltAction    3836172897\par
FaceTargetAction    1379251689\par
ChangeScaleAction    1715070169\par
ArcTargetAction    2940240228\par
AlignToHardpointAction    4278050075\par
ClearNonCollidableFloraNotification    2631316795\par
MessageQueueCraftFillSlot    3677571789\par
VehicleObject    407091182\par
StaticObject    4097725936\par
ResourceContainerObject    3204553555\par
LotManagerNotification    836037122\par
ClientLotManagerNotification    1693204179\par
GuildObject    178765840\par
FactoryObject    2618463670\par
BuildingObject    3291165931\par
BattlefieldMarkerObject    1198395282\par
ShipObjectInterface    46153894\par
ClientShipObjectInterface    2819489398\par
VehicleHoverDynamicsClient    3308362739\par
DeadReckoningModel    3908928212\par
DeadReckoningModelOmniDirectional    2783584196\par
BannerController    1153421068\par
FlagController    2455319194\par
ClientManufactureSchematicSynchronizedUi    3819525512\par
ClientInstallationSynchronizedUi    2238825483\par
ShipComponentData    80108987\par
ClientShipComponentData    2714999216\par
ShipComponentDataTargetingStation    385047787\par
ShipComponentDataHangar    4242684431\par
ShipComponentDataBridge    3797734037\par
ShipComponentDataDroidInterface    2268675684\par
ShipComponentDataBooster    2519389458\par
ShipComponentDataCapacitor    552052009\par
ShipComponentDataWeapon    430272375\par
ShipComponentDataArmor    1227147534\par
ShipComponentDataShield    3803086459\par
ShipComponentDataEngine    677412495\par
ShipComponentDataReactor    2984372367\par
ShaderImplementationGraphicsData    2211958820\par
ShaderImplementationPassVertexShaderGraphicsData    3785786259\par
ShaderImplementationPassPixelShaderProgramGraphicsData    3009596788\par
TextureGraphicsData    2864264658\par
ShaderTemplate    1164944061\par
StaticShaderGraphicsData    3855341165\par
DynamicVertexBufferGraphicsData    4161529890\par
VertexBuffer    1240287969\par
HardwareVertexBuffer    2051345447\par
DynamicVertexBuffer    3017258628\par
VertexBufferReadIterator    3142999832\par
StaticVertexBufferGraphicsData    1850296655\par
StaticVertexBuffer    141477148\par
DynamicIndexBufferGraphicsData    3943205368\par
HardwareIndexBuffer    4103129750\par
DynamicIndexBuffer    3911484529\par
SystemVertexBuffer    1608665583\par
CustomizableShaderTemplate    838008279\par
SwitchTextureShaderTemplate    1550710722\par
SwitchShaderTemplate    2360309397\par
StaticShaderTemplate    1031981338\par
RenderWorldCommander    2641866784\par
RenderWorldServices    1973083681\par
StaticIndexBufferGraphicsData    388136767\par
StaticIndexBuffer    2148618548\par
CustomizableShader    3904283410\par
SwitchTextureShader    3396854534\par
SwitchShader    2613262866\par
SimpleAppearance    3746356769\par
PortalBarrierAppearance    878976425\par
Tweakable    2851923169\par
ForceFieldAppearance    2469473165\par
DynamicColorPolyPrimitive    2286677054\par
ShadowBlobObject    522108537\par
TimerObject    2658903742\par
MeshAppearance    225683290\par
ProxyLocalShaderPrimitive    1922555216\par
ObjectListCamera    3386992115\par
ShaderAppearance    1232830110\par
CameraController    21359434\par
RibbonAppearance    2744121232\par
BeamAppearance    2325206831\par
RibbonTrailAppearance    489066307\par
TrailAppearance    1112268031\par
MeshAppearanceTemplate    2090147588\par
MarkerAppearanceTemplate    2177729834\par
MarkerAppearance    1631831852\par
BeamAppearanceTemplate    718512393\par
ComponentAppearanceTemplate    2598008669\par
DetailAppearanceTemplate    1396303944\par
SpriteAppearanceTemplate    2961238027\par
ComponentAppearance    4260495987\par
ParticleGenerator    17102642\par
ParticleEmitter    1587435402\par
LightningAppearance    2749026272\par
SwooshAppearanceTemplate    2066450113\par
SwooshAppearance    1845297546\par
LightningAppearanceTemplate    3047238966\par
ParticleAttachment    4106772577\par
Particle    1285874935\par
ParticleQuad    761094786\par
ParticleMesh    3346255142\par
ParticleEmitterGroup    2911572180\par
ParticleEffectAppearanceTemplate    3351885522\par
ParticleDescription    1900209241\par
ParticleDescriptionQuad    29927646\par
ParticleDescriptionMesh    3957720954\par
ParticleAttachmentDescription    2988990723\par
ParticleEmitterShapeCircle    3797628730\par
ParticleEmitterShapeSphere    383025679\par
ParticleEmitterShapeRectangle    1440817206\par
ParticleEmitterShapeCube    404020478\par
ParticleEmitterShapeLine    641582640\par
ParticleEmitterShape    2058805103\par
ParticleEmitterShapeX    2525602501\par
TransformAnimationController    1031869009\par
StateHierarchyAnimationController    1104935121\par
LookAtTransformModifier    2196903500\par
TargetPitchTransformModifier    2126598406\par
ZeroTranslationTransformModifier    2576387167\par
MeshGeneratorTemplate    1098073958\par
SkeletalAnimationTemplate    2335833760\par
AnimationStateHierarchyTemplate    816529885\par
AnimationNotification    1468693071\par
CallbackAnimationNotification    2125689463\par
SkeletalAnimation    1000692051\par
SkeletalAppearanceBatchRenderer    2721723485\par
FullGeometrySkeletalAppearanceBatchRenderer    2210231598\par
OwnerProxyShader    1762481479\par
OwnerProxyShaderTemplate    2940858558\par
EditableAnimationStateHierarchyTemplate    1297660056\par
AnimationState    3866811580\par
EditableAnimationState    622912438\par
AnimationAction    348950621\par
EditableAnimationAction    507128861\par
AnimationStateLink    867640332\par
EditableAnimationStateLink    3760171367\par
EditableMovementAnimationAction    1433297181\par
EditableBasicAnimationAction    3665946783\par
ShowAttachedObjectActionTemplate    3583618343\par
ShowAttachedObjectAction    1421180748\par
AnimationMessageActionTemplate    81809658\par
LodMeshGeneratorTemplate    1005138787\par
BasicMeshGeneratorTemplate    2983854689\par
SkeletalMeshGeneratorTemplate    2600701877\par
FatalException    2268358801\par
MeshGenerator    3141731342\par
SkeletalMeshGenerator    1549460262\par
SoftwareBlendSkeletalShaderPrimitive    1549564743\par
YawSkeletalAnimationTemplate    2152918863\par
ActionGeneratorSkeletalAnimationTemplate    2887809168\par
TimeScaleSkeletalAnimation    2528161983\par
TimeScaleSkeletalAnimationTemplate    1859777087\par
StringSelectorSkeletalAnimationTemplate    992278267\par
SpeedSkeletalAnimationTemplate    1316368830\par
SinglePrioritySkeletalAnimation    2002391609\par
BasePriorityBlendAnimation    3093347436\par
PriorityBlendAnimation    2762665683\par
PriorityBlendAnimationTemplate    2702309736\par
DirectionSkeletalAnimation    3580987184\par
DirectionSkeletalAnimationTemplate    3801155478\par
ProxySkeletalAnimationTemplate    1100331027\par
KeyframeSkeletalAnimation    1331999207\par
KeyframeSkeletalAnimationTemplate    849608686\par
CompressedKeyframeAnimation    25779508\par
CompressedKeyframeAnimationTemplate    171132895\par
SkeletonTemplate    3849589758\par
LodSkeletonTemplate    859146007\par
BasicSkeletonTemplate    1462793477\par
TrackAnimationController    3013158316\par
TransformNameMap    2163165914\par
SkeletonTransformNameMap    2733499431\par
AnimationActionGroup    2576169681\par
EditableAnimationActionGroup    1655828851\par
AnimationMessageAction    155331149\par
YawSkeletalAnimation    64373729\par
ActionGeneratorSkeletalAnimation    607690661\par
StringSelectorSkeletalAnimation    2869567696\par
SpeedSkeletalAnimation    2501017271\par
ControlledBlendSkeletalAnimation    1248944558\par
MaskedPrioritySkeletalAnimation    998703499\par
SkeletonTemplateTransformNameMap    1091048231\par
TimedBlendSkeletalAnimation    912822604\par
FloraManager    4190700327\par
ClientRadialFloraManager    572027610\par
ClientStaticRadialFloraManager    3687479379\par
CelestialObject    1328751011\par
SkyBoxAppearance    1996645956\par
WaterManager    1931663261\par
GradientSkyAppearance    1057170869\par
TerrainAppearance    2647690207\par
Thread    3163225479\par
PlanetAppearance    3529139803\par
SpaceTerrainAppearance    1582527680\par
StarAppearance    1796609457\par
PlanetAppearanceTemplate    2544123149\par
CloudLayerAppearance    1413968356\par
ClientSpaceTerrainAppearanceTemplate    3912747650\par
ClientLocalWaterManager2    989729392\par
ClientGlobalWaterManager2    3506662451\par
ClientDynamicRadialFloraManager    1719796072\par
ProceduralTerrainAppearanceTemplate    3572147867\par
ClientProceduralTerrainAppearanceTemplate    4020250178\par
CelestialAppearance    2247913753\par
EnvironmentBlockManager    3929110961\par
ClientLocalWaterManager    1182316857\par
ClientGlobalWaterManager    2071378860\par
SkyBox6SidedAppearance    1799474571\par
TextureRendererTemplate    3695216757\par
TextureRenderer    1837060239\par
TextureRendererShaderPrimitive    2272686487\par
BlueprintTextureRendererTemplate    1720417500\par
BlueprintSharedTextureRenderer    2856739471\par
BlueprintTextureRenderer    1008010382\par
UIIMEManager    3375397988\par
UINullIMEManager    554042214\par
UIBaseObject    1533750410\par
UICanvas    2769184410\par
UIScriptEngine    4009014248\par
UICanvasFactory    1711958936\par
UIEventCallback    3262277239\par
CuiMessageBox    47565071\par
UIRunner    4192975884\par
UIScrollbar    2198796817\par
UIText    3286070813\par
UIButton    3189211972\par
UIComposite    1720441583\par
UIPage    1565321464\par
CuiAction    2968886316\par
OutOfBandBase    2098687333\par
AbstractFileFactory    3189322355\par
StdioFileFactory    3811302231\par
UIActionListener    4111112956\par
CuiConsoleHelperParserStrategy    4034981193\par
CuiConsoleHelper    1722275632\par
CuiAliasHandler    2219714125\par
CuiIoWin    1707774925\par
UIWidget    1019689923\par
MessageQueueCraftCustomization    677240739\par
MessageQueueCraftExperiment    1083525521\par
UISoundCanvas    3173295286\par
UILocalizedStringFactory    3671658871\par
UILoaderExtension    4032878363\par
UILoader    1948757932\par
UICursorInterface    1846789409\par
CuiIMEManager    782491449\par
CuiMediator    4235273297\par
UIData    2803055426\par
UITextbox    2902636208\par
CuiWorkspaceGlassPane    1758338738\par
UINotification    4112937882\par
CuiWorkspace    8140792\par
CuiWorkspaceIcon    1055889808\par
CuiPopupHelp    2727567745\par
CuiDeleteSkillConfirmation    356376109\par
CuiWidget3dObjectListViewer    3081162709\par
CuiWidget3dObjectViewer    2992556726\par
CuiSocialsParser    1165974623\par
CommandParser    3319026196\par
CuiConsent    3457835610\par
CuiGenericRenderer    1702065988\par
CuiObjectDataSourceCallback    4029172071\par
CuiWidgetGroundRadar    1472808331\par
UINotificationServer    3832370939\par
CuiWidget3dPaperdoll    2696341195\par
UICursor    432467297\par
CuiDataDrivenPage    812143113\par
CuiDataDrivenPageListener    898434912\par
Compressor    2122676596\par
ZlibCompressor    3605399759\par
AbstractFile    1680939178\par
ZlibFile    1529464597\par
MemoryFile    459357750\par
FileStreamerFile    2215435971\par
CrcString    333028601\par
PersistentCrcString    2921562283\par
CrcLowerString    2163474825\par
TemporaryCrcString    2366040014\par
ConstCharCrcLowerString    1196901541\par
ConstCharCrcString    391632168\par
BitArray    2148255216\par
ImageFormat    1319371561\par
TargaFormat    33921963\par
ParametersMessage    1215714010\par
ErrorMessage    3047946522\par
ObjControllerMessage    2161008198\par
CmdSceneReady    1140661282\par
CmdStartScene    988209070\par
LoginClientId    1091772310\par
LoginClientToken    2863830726\par
MessageQueueSitOnObject    693476418\par
AddMapLocationMessage    2871096502\par
GetMapLocationsMessage    444250169\par
GetMapLocationsResponseMessage    2675983948\par
GetAuctionDetails    3547265764\par
AuctionQueryHeadersMessage    1738411264\par
BidAuctionMessage    2433897555\par
CreateAuctionMessage    2907111965\par
CreateImmediateAuctionMessage    513598216\par
CancelLiveAuctionMessage    914859218\par
RetrieveAuctionItemMessage    313578569\par
AttributeListMessage    4092669738\par
NewbieTutorialResponse    3397974957\par
DestroyShipMessage    1550321796\par
DestroyShipComponentMessage    946984836\par
CreateNebulaLightningMessage    1710389639\par
UpdatePvpStatusMessage    144818470\par
DestroyClientPathMessage    2807989739\par
CreateClientPathMessage    1905620520\par
NewbieTutorialRequest    2430427567\par
ServerWeatherMessage    1214469866\par
MessageQueueDataTransformWithParent    1422173662\par
MessageQueueDataTransform    150358025\par
SceneCreateObjectByName    527684865\par
SceneCreateObjectByCrc    4270448106\par
SceneDestroyObject    1296422148\par
HyperspaceMessage    3422061698\par
ShipUpdateTransformCollisionMessage    1983269072\par
ShipUpdateTransformMessage    1979871161\par
UpdateMissileMessage    304663809\par
CreateMissileMessage    1914499211\par
CreateProjectileMessage    3096115621\par
RequestWatchObjectPath    3908993103\par
RequestWatchPathMap    3637504168\par
RequestUnstick    1420559875\par
AINodeInfo    605435968\par
AIPathInfo    3390941878\par
DebugTransformMessage    3503139426\par
ClientOpenContainerMessage    3701830665\par
PlayMusicMessage    69668234\par
UpdateTransformWithParentMessage    3362237274\par
UpdateTransformMessage    455407624\par
DeltasMessage    310780243\par
BaselinesMessage    1755799308\par
ServerTimeMessage    784088025\par
UpdateCellPermissionMessage    4128393628\par
UpdateContainmentMessage    1456201374\par
PlayClientEffectObjectMessage    2287289162\par
PlayClientEffectObjectTransformMessage    1331562934\par
PlayClientEffectLocMessage    43294324\par
PlayClientEventObjectMessage    2944648178\par
PlayClientEventObjectTransformMessage    2419076985\par
PlayClientEventLocMessage    172892716\par
VerifyPlayerNameMessage    3146558789\par
GetTicketsMessage    3383097741\par
RequestCategoriesMessage    4170768991\par
NewTicketActivityMessage    659508856\par
ConnectPlayerMessage    775311896\par
CreateTicketMessage    1088834988\par
GetCommentsMessage    655007429\par
CancelTicketMessage    1670313009\par
AppendCommentMessage    180655684\par
BeginTradeMessage    844706520\par
AbortTradeMessage    2628259736\par
AddItemMessage    512562006\par
AddItemFailedMessage    1775493586\par
RemoveItemMessage    1142402955\par
GiveMoneyMessage    3511844584\par
TradeCompleteMessage    3309437835\par
AcceptTransactionMessage    2972830231\par
UnAcceptTransactionMessage    3894297474\par
VerifyTradeMessage    2598520814\par
DenyTradeMessage    1858242160\par
BeginVerificationMessage    3880328693\par
MessageQueueTeleportAck    632824505\par
MessageQueueCommandQueueRemove    2200409458\par
MessageQueueCommandQueueEnqueue    3975898839\par
ClientIdMsg    3582562854\par
EnumerateCharacterId    1709852020\par
SelectCharacter    3037302134\par
ClientCreateCharacter    3112120436\par
ClientCreateCharacterSuccess    498431436\par
ClientCreateCharacterFailed    3744676974\par
RefreshCharacterList    3069445575\par
ClientRandomNameRequest    3604068049\par
ClientRandomNameResponse    3898587240\par
RetrieveAuctionItemResponseMessage    2493116300\par
IsVendorOwnerResponseMessage    3456374590\par
GetAuctionDetailsResponse    4262356043\par
CreateAuctionResponseMessage    241290386\par
CancelLiveAuctionResponseMessage    2107778156\par
BidAuctionResponseMessage    2412506954\par
AuctionQueryHeadersResponseMessage    4199550546\par
AcceptAuctionResponseMessage    3314173038\par
ClientPermissionsMessage    3758567653\par
LoginClusterStatus    875998902\par
LoginEnumCluster    3239863225\par
ChatSystemMessage    1831494675\par
ChatDeleteAllPersistentMessages    2334035570\par
ChatOnSendPersistentMessage    2498209710\par
ChatPersistentMessageToClient    138960407\par
ChatOnDeleteAllPersistentMessages    1327732314\par
ChatPersistentMessageToServer    631414694\par
ChatDeletePersistentMessage    2401572417\par
ChatRequestPersistentMessage    132339103\par
ChatOnSendInstantMessage    2296099713\par
ChatInstantMessageToClient    1012292845\par
ChatInstantMessageToCharacter    2226856439\par
IsVendorOwnerMessage    565533243\par
ObjectMenuSelectMessage    2471730423\par
PopulateMissionBrowserMessage    2295957596\par
MessageQueueMissionListRequest    2701955461\par
MessageQueueMissionDetailsRequest    1837884033\par
MessageQueueMissionGenericRequest    641500961\par
MessageQueueCraftEmptySlot    840289743\par
MessageQueueResourceEmptyHopper    2395636021\par
ConsentResponseMessage    1874946792\par
NewTicketActivityResponseMessage    1856253312\par
GetArticleResponseMessage    2471210720\par
SearchKnowledgeBaseResponseMessage    2092732263\par
GetCommentsResponseMessage    3940223178\par
GetTicketsResponseMessage    3143008152\par
CancelTicketResponseMessage    3606835992\par
AppendCommentResponseMessage    2689220298\par
CreateTicketResponseMessage    1426735226\par
RequestCategoriesResponseMessage    1628737492\par
ConnectPlayerResponseMessage    1631016303\par
ChatEnterRoomById    3161185778\par
ChatRequestRoomList    1279077626\par
ChatSendToRoom    551869411\par
ChatCreateRoom    892759021\par
ChatDestroyRoom    155921015\par
ChatQueryRoom    2633150866\par
ChatUninviteFromRoom    4237099505\par
ChatInviteAvatarToRoom    1920199891\par
ChatUnbanAvatarFromRoom    1284478121\par
ChatBanAvatarFromRoom    3657040276\par
ChatRemoveModeratorFromRoom    2319420932\par
ChatAddModeratorToRoom    2428364655\par
ChatRemoveAvatarFromRoom    1228816378\par
ChatQueryRoomResults    3302917710\par
ChatAddFriend    1811950867\par
SuiUpdatePageMessage    1597194998\par
SuiCreatePageMessage    3561714265\par
SUIMessage    165187679\par
SuiCreatePage    1243889752\par
SuiClosedOk    3758939578\par
SuiForceClosePage    2567658976\par
SuiSetProperty    3799349647\par
VerifyPlayerNameResponseMessage    4106524925\par
ChatOnUnbanAvatarFromRoom    3136927765\par
ChatOnBanAvatarFromRoom    1513640845\par
ChatFriendsListUpdate    1825766616\par
ChatOnUninviteFromRoom    3191064552\par
ChatOnInviteToRoom    1228924746\par
ChatOnSendRoomMessage    3887470131\par
ChatOnReceiveRoomInvitation    3246305389\par
ChatOnRemoveModeratorFromRoom    323157063\par
ChatOnAddModeratorToRoom    916469848\par
ChatOnDestroyRoom    3907803255\par
ChatOnCreateRoom    903335071\par
ChatRoomMessage    3444368452\par
ChatOnLeaveRoom    1622477195\par
ChatOnEnteredRoom    3868974090\par
ChatRoomList    1893642647\par
ChatOnConnectAvatar    3610241470\par
SuiEventNotification    153957732\par
ImageDesignChangeMessage    2619555797\par
DroidCommandProgrammingMessage    4069621029\par
MessageQueueUpdateShipOnCollision    2074500897\par
ImageDesignStartMessage    3405972898\par
MessageQueueNetworkIdAndTransform    1423667283\par
MessageQueueWeaponRanges    2243526649\par
MessageQueuePosture    3030018168\par
MessageQueueString    105261792\par
MessageQueueShowFlyText    539445527\par
MessageQueueOpponentInfo    294097489\par
MessageQueueNetworkIdPair    4214886683\par
MessageQueueMissionListResponse    3414925706\par
MessageQueueMissionCreateRequest    2247117586\par
MessageQueueGenericString    1296205625\par
MessageQueueGeneric    576273633\par
MessageQueueCraftSelectSchematic    2918935601\par
MessageQueueCraftRequestSession    1197374790\par
MessageQueueCraftIngredients    2158770441\par
Container    1440503590\par
CellProperty    2621308808\par
PortalProperty    1665409967\par
RotationDynamics    3662362563\par
ContainedByProperty    3787690904\par
SlottedContainer    2128027438\par
SlottedContainmentProperty    2512162570\par
DebugNotification    3235998996\par
VolumeContainmentProperty    3136260185\par
VolumeContainer    2769895203\par
LayerProperty    1121314452\par
MemoryBlockManagedObject    2334836122\par
PulseDynamics    1783733834\par
TrackingDynamics    3264244632\par
SpringDynamics    3862336869\par
SeesawDynamics    2020438803\par
BasicRangedIntCustomizationVariable    3092871491\par
DebugYawedFloorNotification    2096178012\par
MovementTable    2124090245\par
NoRenderAppearanceTemplate    1209063553\par
NoRenderAppearance    3622827279\par
SwitcherTemplate    2215267573\par
DeltaRandomTimeSwitcherTemplate    377503390\par
DeltaTimeSwitcherTemplate    524465306\par
DeltaRandomFrameTimeSwitcherTemplate    3304696857\par
DeltaFrameSwitcherTemplate    3113773045\par
DeltaPingPongSwitcherTemplate    354072569\par
DeltaRandomFrameSwitcherTemplate    1507562490\par
Switcher    3760489810\par
DeltaRandomTimeSwitcher    1866569183\par
DeltaTimeSwitcher    633339612\par
DeltaRandomFrameTimeSwitcher    471832890\par
DeltaFrameSwitcher    2966357701\par
DeltaPingPongSwitcher    3664368647\par
DeltaRandomFrameSwitcher    1437115236\par
AffectorBoundaryPoly    4284131178\par
AffectorRiver    52228869\par
BoundaryCircle    735818051\par
BoundaryRectangle    1216872205\par
BoundaryPoly    1780673724\par
BoundaryPolygon    3227118775\par
BoundaryPolyline    2478771032\par
ServerSpaceTerrainAppearanceTemplate    1890616473\par
ServerProceduralTerrainAppearanceTemplate    1202300023\par
AffectorHeightConstant    2268599327\par
AffectorHeightFractal    2176937456\par
AffectorHeightTerrace    3828550437\par
FilterHeight    1524934073\par
FilterFractal    371788080\par
FilterSlope    2676651926\par
FilterDirection    3293974186\par
FilterShader    3439162328\par
FilterBitmap    1018100339\par
ServerSpaceTerrainAppearance    2315421088\par
ServerProceduralTerrainAppearance    628342150\par
AffectorShaderConstant    2175040749\par
AffectorShaderReplace    3662064392\par
AffectorRoad    916397727\par
AffectorPassable    1526665151\par
AffectorFloraStatic    2030566199\par
AffectorFloraStaticCollidableConstant    1227646109\par
AffectorFloraStaticNonCollidableConstant    2189374101\par
AffectorFloraDynamic    3038143483\par
AffectorFloraDynamicNearConstant    1753597834\par
AffectorFloraDynamicFarConstant    210770787\par
AffectorEnvironment    1946111800\par
AffectorExclude    4056139795\par
AffectorColorConstant    299854480\par
AffectorColorRampHeight    392514312\par
AffectorColorRampFractal    2458668692\par
MainThread    1917269842\par
FuncPtrThreadZero    1559797360\par
DataTable    1392259984\par
DataTableCell    3177675461\par
DataTableCellInt    1388587191\par
DataTableCellFloat    1072609552\par
DataTableCellString    2557193276\par
SwgCuiLoadingGround    487117330\par
SwgCuiLoadingSpace    774371271\par
SwgCuiSceneSelection    4113319101\par
CuiBackdrop    3922633953\par
CuiColorPicker    4273644034\par
CuiKeypad    3875194320\par
CuiHueObject    2995867186\par
CuiTransfer    595012279\par
CuiBugSubmissionPage    2645723372\par
CuiTransition    3042475149\par
CuiInputBox    1452499456\par
CuiSetName    4002360404\par
CuiNotepad    1184134018\par
CuiVehicleProto    30135975\par
CuiShipTargetInfo    1391674935\par
CuiShipSelfInfo    937644440\par
SwgCuiBiographyEdit    477333763\par
SwgCuiAvatarCreation    2512197087\par
SwgCuiAvatarCustomize2    3347303118\par
SwgCuiCredits    3025273254\par
SwgCuiAuctionBid    2076679185\par
SwgCuiAuctionBuy    3643160666\par
SwgCuiAuctionDetails    2421504603\par
SwgCuiAuctionList    1354757449\par
SwgCuiAuctionSell    2360080476\par
SwgCuiAvatarLocation2    1439191896\par
SwgCuiAvatarSelection    3447411758\par
SwgCuiAvatarSetupProf    394660389\par
SwgCuiAvatarSummary    909383896\par
SwgCuiClusterSelection    1004122579\par
SwgCuiDebugInfoPage    4289543410\par
SwgCuiGameMenu    4032237695\par
SwgCuiHudGround    2856720859\par
SwgCuiHudSpace    2670282396\par
SwgCuiInventory    3580347538\par
SwgCuiLocations    1265541252\par
SwgCuiLoginScreen    830813106\par
SwgCuiMissionBrowser    1471321251\par
SwgCuiMissionDetails    1705022384\par
SwgCuiNews    3089839805\par
SwgCuiServerDisconnected    3843510411\par
SwgCuiIMEInput    3585667346\par
SwgCuiSplash    1229553837\par
SwgCuiStructurePlacement    2888269075\par
SwgCuiVendor    3538718779\par
SwgCuiVendorSetPrice    3516926705\par
SwgCuiChatRooms    3370225816\par
SwgCuiCommandBrowser    877196234\par
SwgCuiControlsMenu    3088157388\par
SwgCuiCraftAssembly    1230075349\par
SwgCuiCraftCustomize    3726772675\par
SwgCuiCraftDraft    1573551746\par
SwgCuiCraftExperiment    365992252\par
SwgCuiCraftOption    1886020990\par
SwgCuiCraftSummary    15504197\par
SwgCuiDataStorage    3405154551\par
SwgCuiExamine    2508147957\par
SwgCuiExpMonitorBox    3684511569\par
SwgCuiWaypointMonitorBox    4231922899\par
SwgCuiHolocron    3229741532\par
SwgCuiNetStatus    773546014\par
SwgCuiOpt    2474230595\par
SwgCuiPersistentMessageBrowser    3083781542\par
SwgCuiPersistentMessageComposer    203659000\par
SwgCuiPlanetMap    505746300\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction    722496408\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction_Hopper    1231409395\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction_Quantity    3050455994\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction_SetResource    1486108755\par
SwgCuiSkills2    3217836875\par
SwgCuiTicketPurchase    735325030\par
SwgCuiTrade    1072161698\par
SwgCuiImageDesignerDesigner    3748752938\par
SwgCuiImageDesignerRecipient    2059796372\par
SwgCuiQuestJournal    3502507847\par
SwgCuiStatMigration    9432524\par
SwgCuiSpaceConversation    777633010\par
SwgCuiHyperspaceMap    3004113041\par
SwgCuiShipComponentDetail    1156337966\par
SwgCuiSpaceAssignPlayerFormation    462637499\par
SwgCuiSpaceZoneMap    2082538766\par
SwgCuiWeaponGroupAssignment    284707544\par
SwgCuiShipComponentManagement    3651517891\par
SwgCuiShipChoose    128726726\par
SwgCuiShipView    455336754\par
SwgCuiDroidCommand    3881076762\par
SwgCuiSpaceGroupLaunch    4203401193\par
SwgCuiResourceSplitter    691485623\par
SwgCuiHarassmentReport    1349086628\par
SwgCuiIMEIndicator    2572619378\par
SwgCuiIMEIndicatorSpace    2851165369\par
SwgCuiMfdStatus    910889361\par
SwgCuiStatusGround    3715332498\par
SwgCuiHud    1298055123\par
SwgCuiAvatarCustomizationBase    3093921063\par
SwgCuiAuctionListBase    878790750\par
CuiIconManagerCallback    2215863018\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerFilter    1987001103\par
UITableModel    2699849264\par
UITableModelDefault    3775669924\par
UIDataSourceContainer    4229632987\par
UIDataSourceBase    802333224\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsCreate    934808282\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderFilter    3306619878\par
UISliderbar    2807682369\par
UIPopupMenu    2591800831\par
SwgCuiMfdStatusBar    632439430\par
SwgCuiHudAction    3177075155\par
SwgCuiHudActionSpace    3216912727\par
SwgCuiHudWindowManager    31178639\par
SwgCuiHudWindowManagerSpace    1627111244\par
SwgCuiHudActionGround    2769445947\par
SwgCuiHudWindowManagerGround    3376974191\par
SwgCuiSurvey    1266145345\par
SwgCuiCommunity    930833814\par
SwgCuiService    3884928508\par
SwgCuiTicketSubmission    3172784999\par
SwgCuiHarassmentMessage    2986787672\par
SwgCuiCharacterSheet    3593021017\par
SwgCuiPermissionList    2493062361\par
SwgCuiNewMacro    2327354484\par
SwgCuiAllTargets    3013995010\par
SwgCuiInventoryInfo    1503864289\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainer    466511241\par
SwgCuiContainerProvider    3341525905\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderDefault    3531547674\par
SwgCuiDeleteAvatarConfirmation    3097725116\par
SwgCuiInventoryEquipment    2659599933\par
SwgCuiCraftAssemblyDialogOption    613701132\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderDraft    3278332653\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderPoi    1529759024\par
SwgCuiExpMonitor    74774624\par
SwgCuiWaypointMonitor    823145775\par
SwgCuiOptBase    1206065775\par
SwgCuiOptUi    1443253120\par
SwgCuiOptTerrain    3433073739\par
SwgCuiOptSound    3358055862\par
SwgCuiOptMisc    3066582404\par
SwgCuiOptGraphics    3942037550\par
SwgCuiOptControls    3505131032\par
SwgCuiOptCombat    943565214\par
SwgCuiOptChatColors    3127936881\par
SwgCuiOptChat    1826655164\par
SwgCuiOptAlarm    1585765701\par
SwgCuiOptAfk    4113329228\par
SwgCuiSkills2Profession    3773642797\par
SwgCuiSkills2MyStats    3560208161\par
SwgCuiSkills2ProfessionList    4184102718\par
SwgCuiSpaceMissileCount    2742601827\par
SwgCuiSpaceGroup    3910490941\par
SwgCuiSpaceFlyOutPage    1939248046\par
SwgCuiShipReticle    588462216\par
SwgCuiAllTargetsSpace    2026631692\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadar    3288743575\par
UIImage    2771253238\par
SwgCuiGroup    4104659143\par
SwgCuiAttributeModifiers    3129810162\par
SwgCuiAllTargetsGround    2468151207\par
SwgCuiGroundRadar    1056047611\par
SwgCuiChatWindow    473773929\par
SwgCuiIncap    695664234\par
SwgCuiCombatQueue    3598498106\par
SwgCuiButtonBar    1860580195\par
SwgCuiToolbar    131386803\par
SwgCuiTargets    815624007\par
SwgCuiSystemMessage    3592581894\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsWho    1101213696\par
SwgCuiAuctionListPane    1917547792\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerDetails    26798586\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerIcons    2394245631\par
SwgCuiSkills2ProfessionGraph    1528053987\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderTrade    2828481577\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadarPlanar    1185536163\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadarSpherical2    1232736806\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadarSpherical    3460577588\par
SwgCuiStatusSpace    2894529207\par
SwgCuiCommandParserDefault    3658439479\par
SwgCuiCommandParserUI    84333813\par
SwgCuiCommandParserChatRoom    696257822\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsBan    100891090\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsInvite    2747337366\par
SwgCuiReticle    3099140776\par
SwgCuiAuctionListView    22120811\par
SwgCuiAuctionFilter    1021704826\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerDetailsTableModel    3056252041\par
SwgCuiCommandParserNebula    1668337274\par
SwgCuiCommandParserShip    2233773053\par
SwgCuiAuctionPaneTableModel    2587188982\par
SwgCuiCommandParserShipWeaponGroup    3190638365\par
UITextStyleManager    2439580825\par
UIManager    2122632191\par
BaseUIWatcher    2786568612\par
UIClock    3641682900\par
UIStyle    3430133297\par
UITextStyle    1277344630\par
UIImageStyle    1731150448\par
UIPalette    4229365099\par
UIRectangleStyle    98190476\par
UIWidgetRectangleStyles    2482143688\par
UIRadialMenu    3801755073\par
UICursorInterfaceDefault    16522158\par
UICheckbox    4048548807\par
UIEffector    2834170964\par
UIOpacityEffector    459811308\par
UIWidgetStyle    225740805\par
UIDataSource    2213480652\par
UIPie    1240441727\par
UIListbox    391629611\par
UIList    1009191185\par
UIVolumePage    981600393\par
UITable    1899636725\par
UIComboBox    3464963759\par
UITabbedPane    1529079301\par
UITreeView    971938791\par
UISliderbase    1848863584\par
UIColorEffector    3303352895\par
UISizeEffector    466997896\par
UIGBuffer    3529444635\par
UIEllipse    2010485876\par
UINamespace    3156983249\par
UITooltipStyle    3884287048\par
UITemplate    3582061889\par
UIUnknown    951954722\par
UIImageFragment    1373223008\par
UIImageFrame    2361237818\par
UICursorSet    2245321973\par
UIButtonStyle    1666455682\par
UIBoundary    842970521\par
UIBoundaryPolygon    3625799190\par
UITextboxStyle    4196678475\par
UIGridStyle    1925167702\par
UICheckboxStyle    2695556137\par
UIPieStyle    1945650835\par
UITemplateCache    1015627277\par
UIListboxStyle    283037173\par
UITreeViewStyle    422046888\par
UIListStyle    3325023210\par
UIWatchable    3581614684\par
UIDeformer    3792814647\par
UIDeformerWave    4119011140\par
UIDeformerRotate    1346437327\par
UIDeformerHUD    3527707664\par
UIRotationEffector    3432393761\par
UIScrollLocationEffector    3816747425\par
UILocationEffector    433876264\par
UITabSet    2974065949\par
UIGrid    3261523850\par
UISliderplane    133556603\par
UIProgressbar    727457007\par
UIDropdownbox    696281934\par
UIRadialMenuStyle    2954987095\par
UIPopupMenuStyle    2557748883\par
UITabbedPaneStyle    3141918141\par
UITabSetStyle    2846766379\par
UISliderbarStyle    4164679761\par
UIProgressbarStyle    1828394095\par
UIDropdownboxStyle    3734412854\par
UIFontCharacter    2447797292\par
UITableHeader    417990899\par
LocalizedStringTable    3788403042\par
SurveyMessage    2273278380\par
ResourceListForSurveyMessage    2321854933\par
ConsentRequestMessage    2581377172\par
PermissionListCreateMessage    1391682744\par
MessageQueueCombatDamage    1500496260\par
MessageQueueCombatAction    3249075475\par
ShipComponentDescriptor    4013902605\par
SharedTerrainSurfaceObjectTemplate    187337997\par
ShipChassis    3471564562\par
ResourceClassObject    765524150\par
ShipComponentDescriptorWritable    887070883\par
ShipChassisWritable    273323233\par
BaseExtent    2556644905\par
DoorObject    1288720313\par
BaseClass    735275866\par
Footprint    1857184496\par
FloorContactShape    83559313\par
BarrierObject    3405177254\par
SimpleExtent    3024559606\par
CollisionSurface    2714061954\par
FloorMesh    3610828284\par
Floor    3247102537\par
CollisionMesh    4104794394\par
MeshExtent    3252772196\par
DoorCollisionProperty    3214182307\par
CollisionNotification    1069005488\par
CompositeExtent    2716264834\par
ComponentExtent    1040498163\par
DetailExtent    3152346306\par
CylinderExtent    318498024\par
MultiListHandle    324511345\par
MultiListNode    712242119\par
NeighborObject    3373184078\par
BarrierCollisionProperty    1454551128\par
SimpleCollisionMesh    2380140719\par
SkillManager    595764879\par
SkillObject    105592941\par
NetLogConnection    3575101251\par
DeferredSend    3279903704\par
DeferredSendArchive    1948889072\par
DeferredSendLogicalPacket    3667962576\par
NetworkSetupData    3906613179\par
Sock    2895886302\par
UdpSock    3165707090\par
UdpManagerHandlerMT    2223094232\par
ManagerHandler    587771130\par
UdpManagerHandler    2553150738\par
UdpManagerHandlerInternal    3852984095\par
UdpConnectionHandler    3844008162\par
UdpConnectionHandlerInternal    4178289890\par
Service    3768364986\par
UdpLibraryException    484177346\par
UdpConnectionHandlerMT    616665295\par
ConnectionHandler    11731616\par
LogObserver    738011786\par
NetLogObserver    1939675461\par
FileLogObserver    4181866324\par
SharedRemoteDebugServerConnection    260705197\par
StdioFile    3736814746\par
PathEdge    1724221572\par
PathNode    2166320258\par
PathGraph    1856991824\par
SimplePathGraph    2815254002\par
bad_cast    3743574705\par
type_info    970458917\par
bad_typeid    2782288768\par
__non_rtti_object    2199234497\par
Intro    2789532372\par
SimplePolyPrimitive    4158158695\par
VertexBufferVectorGraphicsData    1795062227\par
ObjectWatcherListCamera    162408511\par
CuiShipInfo    1583148772\par
CuiConversationMenu    2731491566\par
CuiTurntableAdapter    3758435170\par
CuiCreatureSkillsList    1941836723\par
CuiCreatureAttributeTable    2209365424\par
CuiControlsMenuBindEntry    3484557578\par
CuiMoney    4052117999\par
CuiArcGuage    3050926798\par
CuiFontSizer    526874534\par
CuiChatParserStrategy    3066608582\par
CuiCommandTableParser    1058851383\par
RemoteDebug    952174318\par
ClientMfdStatusUpdateMessage    757952225\par
DeleteCharacterReplyMessage    2187892891\par
DeleteCharacterMessage    3900362801\par
RequestGalaxyLoopTimes    2105814376\par
GalaxyLoopTimesResponse    1312981128\par
PlanetTravelPointListResponse    1295143967\par
PlanetTravelPointListRequest    2520800589\par
StatMigrationTargetsMessage    4021041348\par
NewbieTutorialEnableHudElement    3392622884\par
EditStatsMessage    811502632\par
EditAppearanceMessage    36905173\par
CloseHolocronMessage    3230894749\par
OpenHolocronToPageMessage    2092322849\par
EnterTicketPurchaseModeMessage    2421009946\par
EnterStructurePlacementModeMessage    3903147457\par
ResourceHarvesterActivatePageMessage    3734512102\par
BadgesResponseMessage    1837748827\par
GuildResponseMessage    841367328\par
GuildRequestMessage    2179682039\par
ConGenericMessage    147192950\par
ExecuteConsoleCommand    2983185948\par
CharacterSheetResponseMessage    2604275652\par
FactionResponseMessage    1574254935\par
PlayerMoneyResponse    914256766\par
FactionRequestMessage    3249552257\par
PlayerMoneyRequest    2635094689\par
StomachRequestMessage    3076380119\par
GetArticleMessage    1585137734\par
SearchKnowledgeBaseMessage    2519632795\par
LogMessage    2942269346\par
IntegerParam    4039827987\par
FloatParam    467358156\par
BoolParam    2458754482\par
StringParam    2003782270\par
VectorParam    3871890683\par
StringIdParam    1671200146\par
TriggerVolumeParam    2954993688\par
DynamicVariableParamData    3432390802\par
DynamicVariableParam    310686578\par
\par
\pard\page Packet opcode strings version 2. (Original source:  Ramsey provided to Meanmon13)\par
\par
\pard\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656 AINodeInfo    605435968\par
AIPathInfo    3390941878\par
AbortTradeMessage    2628259736\par
AbstractFile    1680939178\par
AbstractFileFactory    3189322355\par
AcceptAuctionResponseMessage    3314173038\par
AcceptTransactionMessage    2972830231\par
ActionGeneratorSkeletalAnimation    607690661\par
ActionGeneratorSkeletalAnimationTemplate    2887809168\par
AddItemFailedMessage    1775493586\par
AddItemMessage    512562006\par
AddMapLocationMessage    2871096502\par
AffectorBoundaryPoly    4284131178\par
AffectorColorConstant    299854480\par
AffectorColorRampFractal    2458668692\par
AffectorColorRampHeight    392514312\par
AffectorEnvironment    1946111800\par
AffectorExclude    4056139795\par
AffectorFloraDynamic    3038143483\par
AffectorFloraDynamicFarConstant    210770787\par
AffectorFloraDynamicNearConstant    1753597834\par
AffectorFloraStatic    2030566199\par
AffectorFloraStaticCollidableConstant    1227646109\par
AffectorFloraStaticNonCollidableConstant    2189374101\par
AffectorHeightConstant    2268599327\par
AffectorHeightFractal    2176937456\par
AffectorHeightTerrace    3828550437\par
AffectorPassable    1526665151\par
AffectorRibbon    3013745416\par
AffectorRiver    52228869\par
AffectorRoad    916397727\par
AffectorShaderConstant    2175040749\par
AffectorShaderReplace    3662064392\par
AlignToHardpointAction    4278050075\par
AlignToHardpointActionTemplate    4071998252\par
AlignmentTransformModifier    2183525787\par
AnimationAction    348950621\par
AnimationActionGroup    2576169681\par
AnimationMessageAction    155331149\par
AnimationMessageActionTemplate    81809658\par
AnimationNotification    1468693071\par
AnimationState    3866811580\par
AnimationStateHierarchyTemplate    816529885\par
AnimationStateLink    867640332\par
Appearance    3256884407\par
AppearanceTemplate    3850726572\par
AppendCommentMessage    180655684\par
AppendCommentResponseMessage    2689220298\par
ArcTargetAction    2940240228\par
ArcTargetActionTemplate    1393295015\par
AsteroidDynamics    4059297941\par
AttributeListMessage    4092669738\par
AuctionQueryHeadersMessage    1738411264\par
AuctionQueryHeadersResponseMessage    4199550546\par
BadgesResponseMessage    1837748827\par
BannerController    1153421068\par
BarrierCollisionProperty    1454551128\par
BarrierObject    3405177254\par
BaseClass    735275866\par
BaseExtent    2556644905\par
BasePriorityBlendAnimation    3093347436\par
BaseUIWatcher    2786568612\par
BaseWatcher    840681348\par
BaselinesMessage    1755799308\par
BasicMeshGeneratorTemplate    2983854689\par
BasicRangedIntCustomizationVariable    3092871491\par
BasicSkeletonTemplate    1462793477\par
BattlefieldMarkerObject    1198395282\par
BeamAppearance    2325206831\par
BeamAppearanceTemplate    718512393\par
BeginTradeMessage    844706520\par
BeginVerificationMessage    3880328693\par
BidAuctionMessage    2433897555\par
BidAuctionResponseMessage    2412506954\par
BinkVideo    1610411510\par
BitArray    2148255216\par
BlueprintSharedTextureRenderer    2856739471\par
BlueprintTextureRenderer    1008010382\par
BlueprintTextureRendererTemplate    1720417500\par
BoolParam    2458754482\par
BoundaryCircle    735818051\par
BoundaryPoly    1780673724\par
BoundaryPolygon    3227118775\par
BoundaryPolyline    2478771032\par
BoundaryRectangle    1216872205\par
BoxExtent    3899581653\par
BuildingObject    3291165931\par
CallbackAnimationNotification    2125689463\par
CallbackReceiver    987893283\par
Camera    620007738\par
CameraController    21359434\par
CancelLiveAuctionMessage    914859218\par
CancelLiveAuctionResponseMessage    2107778156\par
CancelTicketMessage    1670313009\par
CancelTicketResponseMessage    3606835992\par
CelestialAppearance    2247913753\par
CelestialObject    1328751011\par
CellObject    1920583358\par
CellProperty    2621308808\par
ChangePostureActionTemplate    3439397905\par
ChangeScaleAction    1715070169\par
ChangeScaleActionTemplate    4144671035\par
CharacterSheetResponseMessage    2604275652\par
ChatAddFriend    1811950867\par
ChatAddModeratorToRoom    2428364655\par
ChatBanAvatarFromRoom    3657040276\par
ChatCreateRoom    892759021\par
ChatDeleteAllPersistentMessages    2334035570\par
ChatDeletePersistentMessage    2401572417\par
ChatDestroyRoom    155921015\par
ChatEnterRoomById    3161185778\par
ChatFriendsListUpdate    1825766616\par
ChatInstantMessageToCharacter    2226856439\par
ChatInstantMessageToClient    1012292845\par
ChatInviteAvatarToRoom    1920199891\par
ChatInviteGroupToRoom    28689718\par
ChatKickAvatarFromRoom    3770475099\par
ChatOnAddModeratorToRoom    916469848\par
ChatOnBanAvatarFromRoom    1513640845\par
ChatOnConnectAvatar    3610241470\par
ChatOnCreateRoom    903335071\par
ChatOnDeleteAllPersistentMessages    1327732314\par
ChatOnDestroyRoom    3907803255\par
ChatOnEnteredRoom    3868974090\par
ChatOnInviteGroupToRoom    2188875567\par
ChatOnInviteToRoom    1228924746\par
ChatOnKickAvatarFromRoom    1184972140\par
ChatOnLeaveRoom    1622477195\par
ChatOnReceiveRoomInvitation    3246305389\par
ChatOnRemoveModeratorFromRoom    323157063\par
ChatOnSendInstantMessage    2296099713\par
ChatOnSendPersistentMessage    2498209710\par
ChatOnSendRoomMessage    3887470131\par
ChatOnUnbanAvatarFromRoom    3136927765\par
ChatOnUninviteFromRoom    3191064552\par
ChatPersistentMessageToClient    138960407\par
ChatPersistentMessageToServer    631414694\par
ChatQueryRoom    2633150866\par
ChatQueryRoomResults    3302917710\par
ChatRemoveAvatarFromRoom    1228816378\par
ChatRemoveModeratorFromRoom    2319420932\par
ChatRequestPersistentMessage    132339103\par
ChatRequestRoomList    1279077626\par
ChatRoomList    1893642647\par
ChatRoomMessage    3444368452\par
ChatSendToRoom    551869411\par
ChatSystemMessage    1831494675\par
ChatUnbanAvatarFromRoom    1284478121\par
ChatUninviteFromRoom    4237099505\par
ClearNonCollidableFloraNotification    2631316795\par
ClientBattlefieldMarkerObjectTemplate    3403781837\par
ClientBattlefieldMarkerOutlineObject    1829099829\par
ClientBattlefieldMarkerOutlineObjectNotification    1361519442\par
ClientBuildingObjectTemplate    2592065389\par
ClientCellObjectTemplate    4151055663\par
ClientClearCollidableFloraNotification    3960987185\par
ClientCollisionProperty    1776314696\par
ClientConstructionContractObjectTemplate    256189706\par
ClientController    2735280162\par
ClientCreateCharacter    3112120436\par
ClientCreateCharacterFailed    3744676974\par
ClientCreateCharacterSuccess    498431436\par
ClientCreatureObjectTemplate    502488254\par
ClientDataFile    3872981711\par
ClientDynamicRadialFloraManager    1719796072\par
ClientEffect    3313029782\par
ClientEffectTemplate    3732150589\par
ClientFactoryObjectTemplate    996191902\par
ClientGlobalWaterManager2    3506662451\par
ClientGroupObjectTemplate    3717171146\par
ClientGuildObjectTemplate    443319527\par
ClientIdMsg    3582562854\par
ClientInstallationObjectTemplate    2478053396\par
ClientInstallationSynchronizedUi    2238825483\par
ClientIntangibleObjectTemplate    709427540\par
ClientLocalWaterManager    1182316857\par
ClientLotManagerNotification    1693204179\par
ClientManufactureSchematicObjectTemplate    4117531031\par
ClientManufactureSchematicSynchronizedUi    3819525512\par
ClientMfdStatusUpdateMessage    757952225\par
ClientMissionObject    1992566760\par
ClientMissionObjectTemplate    1503847516\par
ClientNoBuildNotification    3271785850\par
ClientNotificationBoxMessage    2429517315\par
ClientObject    2407789610\par
ClientObjectTemplate    3893961532\par
ClientObjectTerrainModificationNotification    2580756382\par
ClientOpenContainerMessage    3701830665\par
ClientPathObject    2818677898\par
ClientPathObjectNotification    701441168\par
ClientPermissionsMessage    3758567653\par
ClientPlayerObjectTemplate    2759189443\par
ClientProceduralTerrainAppearance    576664228\par
ClientProceduralTerrainAppearanceTemplate    4020250178\par
ClientRadialFloraManager    572027610\par
ClientRandomNameRequest    3604068049\par
ClientRandomNameResponse    3898587240\par
ClientResourceContainerObjectTemplate    3517750755\par
ClientSharedObjectTemplateInterface    1515917103\par
ClientShipComponentData    2714999216\par
ClientShipObjectInterface    2819489398\par
ClientShipObjectTemplate    3401635348\par
ClientSpaceTerrainAppearance    191602705\par
ClientSpaceTerrainAppearanceTemplate    3912747650\par
ClientStaticObjectTemplate    76456494\par
ClientStaticRadialFloraManager    3687479379\par
ClientStructureFootprintObject    3982198387\par
ClientStructureFootprintObjectNotification    132704285\par
ClientSynchronizedUi    4275896099\par
ClientTangibleObjectTemplate    4282560109\par
ClientUniverse    3710562554\par
ClientUniverseObjectTemplate    1709144970\par
ClientVehicleObjectTemplate    2405984891\par
ClientVerifyAndLockNameRequest    2662353823\par
ClientVerifyAndLockNameResponse    2603379623\par
ClientWaypointObject    713236611\par
ClientWaypointObjectTemplate    1446258517\par
ClientWeaponObjectTemplate    2538656534\par
CloneWeaponActionTemplate    3979943831\par
CloseHolocronMessage    3230894749\par
CloudLayerAppearance    1413968356\par
CmdSceneReady    1140661282\par
CmdStartScene    988209070\par
CockpitCamera    2029851017\par
CockpitLeaveStage    291307884\par
CockpitStage    1489152900\par
CollisionMesh    4104794394\par
CollisionNotification    1069005488\par
CollisionProperty    3438652739\par
CollisionSurface    2714061954\par
CommandParser    3319026196\par
ComponentAppearance    4260495987\par
ComponentAppearanceTemplate    2598008669\par
ComponentExtent    1040498163\par
CompositeExtent    2716264834\par
CompressedKeyframeAnimation    25779508\par
CompressedKeyframeAnimationTemplate    171132895\par
Compressor    2122676596\par
ConGenericMessage    147192950\par
ConnectPlayerMessage    775311896\par
ConnectPlayerResponseMessage    1631016303\par
Connection    2416448046\par
ConnectionHandler    11731616\par
ConnectionServerConnection    2827870631\par
ConsentRequestMessage    2581377172\par
ConsentResponseMessage    1874946792\par
ConstCharCrcLowerString    1196901541\par
ConstCharCrcString    391632168\par
ContainedByProperty    3787690904\par
Container    1440503590\par
ControlledBlendSkeletalAnimation    1248944558\par
Controller    1451889799\par
Countermeasure    2418093769\par
CrcLowerString    2163474825\par
CrcString    333028601\par
CreateAuctionMessage    2907111965\par
CreateAuctionResponseMessage    241290386\par
CreateClientPathMessage    1905620520\par
CreateImmediateAuctionMessage    513598216\par
CreateMissileMessage    1914499211\par
CreateNebulaLightningMessage    1710389639\par
CreateProjectileMessage    3096115621\par
CreateTicketMessage    1088834988\par
CreateTicketResponseMessage    1426735226\par
CreatureController    1499990732\par
CreatureObject    29990564\par
DebugNotification    3235998996\par
DebugPortalCamera    1226505821\par
DebugTransformMessage    3503139426\par
DeferredSend    3279903704\par
DeferredSendArchive    1948889072\par
DeferredSendLogicalPacket    3667962576\par
DeleteCharacterMessage    3900362801\par
DeleteCharacterReplyMessage    2187892891\par
DeltaFrameSwitcher    2966357701\par
DeltaFrameSwitcherTemplate    3113773045\par
DeltaPingPongSwitcher    3664368647\par
DeltaPingPongSwitcherTemplate    354072569\par
DeltaRandomFrameSwitcher    1437115236\par
DeltaRandomFrameSwitcherTemplate    1507562490\par
DeltaRandomFrameTimeSwitcher    471832890\par
DeltaRandomFrameTimeSwitcherTemplate    3304696857\par
DeltaRandomTimeSwitcher    1866569183\par
DeltaRandomTimeSwitcherTemplate    377503390\par
DeltaTimeSwitcher    633339612\par
DeltaTimeSwitcherTemplate    524465306\par
DeltasMessage    310780243\par
DenyTradeMessage    1858242160\par
DestroyClientPathMessage    2807989739\par
DestroyShipComponentMessage    946984836\par
DestroyShipMessage    1550321796\par
DetailAppearance    424199883\par
DetailAppearanceTemplate    1396303944\par
DetailExtent    3152346306\par
DirectionSkeletalAnimation    3580987184\par
DirectionSkeletalAnimationTemplate    3801155478\par
DoorCollisionProperty    3214182307\par
DoorObject    1288720313\par
DroidCommandProgrammingMessage    4069621029\par
DustAppearance    1344696814\par
DynamicColorPolyPrimitive    2286677054\par
DynamicDebrisObject    2063775932\par
DynamicIndexBuffer    3911484529\par
DynamicIndexBufferGraphicsData    3943205368\par
DynamicMeshAppearance    3542931616\par
DynamicNormalMapTest    1103873009\par
DynamicVariableParam    310686578\par
DynamicVariableParamData    3432390802\par
DynamicVertexBuffer    3017258628\par
DynamicVertexBufferGraphicsData    4161529890\par
Dynamics    1835664709\par
EditAppearanceMessage    36905173\par
EditStatsMessage    811502632\par
EditableAnimationAction    507128861\par
EditableAnimationActionGroup    1655828851\par
EditableAnimationState    622912438\par
EditableAnimationStateHierarchyTemplate    1297660056\par
EditableAnimationStateLink    3760171367\par
EditableBasicAnimationAction    3665946783\par
EditableMovementAnimationAction    1433297181\par
EnterStructurePlacementModeMessage    3903147457\par
EnterTicketPurchaseModeMessage    2421009946\par
EnumerateCharacterId    1709852020\par
EnvironmentBlockManager    3929110961\par
ErrorMessage    3047946522\par
ExecuteConsoleCommand    2983185948\par
ExpertiseRequestMessage    3247474133\par
Extent    2739451456\par
FaceTargetAction    1379251689\par
FaceTargetActionTemplate    3625594629\par
FactionRequestMessage    3249552257\par
FactionResponseMessage    1574254935\par
FactoryObject    2618463670\par
FadingTextAppearance    1519281825\par
FatalException    2268358801\par
FileLogObserver    4181866324\par
FileStreamerFile    2215435971\par
FilterBitmap    1018100339\par
FilterDirection    3293974186\par
FilterFractal    371788080\par
FilterHeight    1524934073\par
FilterShader    3439162328\par
FilterSlope    2676651926\par
FireProjectileAction    442062533\par
FireProjectileActionTemplate    4134775216\par
FireSetupActionTemplate    422876763\par
FireTurretActionTemplate    2703641680\par
FlagController    2455319194\par
FloatParam    467358156\par
Floor    3247102537\par
FloorContactShape    83559313\par
FloorMesh    3610828284\par
FloraManager    4190700327\par
FlyByCamera    231571900\par
Footprint    1857184496\par
ForceFieldAppearance    2469473165\par
FreeCamera    1850170273\par
FreeChaseCamera    1957407439\par
FuncPtrThreadZero    1559797360\par
GalaxyLoopTimesResponse    1312981128\par
GameCamera    819912248\par
GameLight    3323947427\par
GameNetworkConnection    1297731955\par
GameNetworkMessage    3613824909\par
GetArticleMessage    1585137734\par
GetArticleResponseMessage    2471210720\par
GetAuctionDetails    3547265764\par
GetAuctionDetailsResponse    4262356043\par
GetCommentsMessage    655007429\par
GetCommentsResponseMessage    3940223178\par
GetMapLocationsMessage    444250169\par
GetMapLocationsResponseMessage    2675983948\par
GetTicketsMessage    3383097741\par
GetTicketsResponseMessage    3143008152\par
GiveMoneyMessage    3511844584\par
GlowAppearance    3422709010\par
GradientSkyAppearance    1057170869\par
GrenadeLobAction    2838371733\par
GrenadeLobActionTemplate    1646786389\par
GroundScene    1259779807\par
GroupLogicalPacket    2767439164\par
GroupObject    1552788934\par
GuildObject    178765840\par
GuildRequestMessage    2179682039\par
GuildResponseMessage    841367328\par
HardpointObject    564322160\par
HardpointTargetAction    4159533970\par
HardpointTargetActionTemplate    3500385529\par
HardwareIndexBuffer    4103129750\par
HardwareVertexBuffer    2051345447\par
HomingTargetAction    4287010299\par
HomingTargetActionTemplate    2968804358\par
HyperspaceIoWin    2267327401\par
HyperspaceMessage    3422061698\par
ImageDesignChangeMessage    2619555797\par
ImageDesignStartMessage    3405972898\par
ImageFormat    1319371561\par
InstallationObject    3858591664\par
IntangibleObject    3178238000\par
IntegerParam    4039827987\par
IoWin    2942732079\par
IsVendorOwnerMessage    565533243\par
IsVendorOwnerResponseMessage    3456374590\par
JgrillsTest    2624482906\par
KeyframeSkeletalAnimation    1331999207\par
KeyframeSkeletalAnimationTemplate    849608686\par
LayerProperty    1121314452\par
Light    2439877399\par
LightningAppearance    2749026272\par
LightningAppearanceTemplate    3047238966\par
LightsaberAppearance    614456479\par
LightsaberAppearanceTemplate    252224159\par
LocalizedStringTable    3788403042\par
LodMeshGeneratorTemplate    1005138787\par
LodShaderTest    1293789161\par
LodSkeletonTemplate    859146007\par
LogMessage    2942269346\par
LogObserver    738011786\par
LogicalPacket    3226754604\par
LoginClientId    1091772310\par
LoginClientToken    2863830726\par
LoginClusterStatus    875998902\par
LoginClusterStatusEx    4200287066\par
LoginConnection    2294802292\par
LoginEnumCluster    3239863225\par
LoginIncorrectClientId    552068368\par
LookAtTransformModifier    2196903500\par
LotManagerNotification    836037122\par
MainThread    1917269842\par
ManagerHandler    587771130\par
ManufactureSchematicObject    2304620222\par
MarkerAppearance    1631831852\par
MarkerAppearanceTemplate    2177729834\par
MaskedPrioritySkeletalAnimation    998703499\par
MemoryBlockManagedObject    2334836122\par
MemoryFile    459357750\par
MeshAppearance    225683290\par
MeshAppearanceTemplate    2090147588\par
MeshExtent    3252772196\par
MeshGenerator    3141731342\par
MeshGeneratorTemplate    1098073958\par
MessageQueueChangeRoleIconChoice    1909144416\par
MessageQueueCombatAction    3249075475\par
MessageQueueCombatDamage    1500496260\par
MessageQueueCombatSpam    1269080413\par
MessageQueueCommandQueueEnqueue    3975898839\par
MessageQueueCommandQueueRemove    2200409458\par
MessageQueueCommandTimer    229842890\par
MessageQueueCraftCustomization    677240739\par
MessageQueueCraftEmptySlot    840289743\par
MessageQueueCraftExperiment    1083525521\par
MessageQueueCraftFillSlot    3677571789\par
MessageQueueCraftIngredients    2158770441\par
MessageQueueCraftRequestSession    1197374790\par
MessageQueueCraftSelectSchematic    2918935601\par
MessageQueueCyberneticsChangeRequest    1607808580\par
MessageQueueCyberneticsOpen    4044151960\par
MessageQueueDataTransform    150358025\par
MessageQueueDataTransformWithParent    1422173662\par
MessageQueueDraftSchematics    834656099\par
MessageQueueDraftSlots    3278498762\par
MessageQueueDraftSlotsQueryResponse    903599514\par
MessageQueueGeneric    576273633\par
MessageQueueGenericIntResponse    4043525335\par
MessageQueueGenericResponse    278093382\par
MessageQueueGenericString    1296205625\par
MessageQueueHarvesterResourceData    1043099458\par
MessageQueueMissionCreateRequest    2247117586\par
MessageQueueMissionDetailsRequest    1837884033\par
MessageQueueMissionDetailsResponse    612281975\par
MessageQueueMissionGenericRequest    641500961\par
MessageQueueMissionGenericResponse    2362881377\par
MessageQueueMissionListRequest    2701955461\par
MessageQueueMissionListResponse    3414925706\par
MessageQueueNetworkId    2200477005\par
MessageQueueNetworkIdAndTransform    1423667283\par
MessageQueueNetworkIdPair    4214886683\par
MessageQueueNpcConversationMessage    4107377721\par
MessageQueueObjectMenuRequest    378514195\par
MessageQueueOpponentInfo    294097489\par
MessageQueuePosture    3030018168\par
MessageQueuePushCreature    2205906325\par
MessageQueueQuestTaskCounterMessage    1539556086\par
MessageQueueQuestTaskLocationMessage    539805668\par
MessageQueueQuestTaskTimerMessage    2216476588\par
MessageQueueResourceEmptyHopper    2395636021\par
MessageQueueResourceWeights    2826284905\par
MessageQueueSecureTrade    82346135\par
MessageQueueSelectCurrentWorkingSkill    770648030\par
MessageQueueSelectProfessionTemplate    2934787605\par
MessageQueueShipHit    2259491664\par
MessageQueueShowCombatText    375075818\par
MessageQueueShowFlyText    539445527\par
MessageQueueSitOnObject    693476418\par
MessageQueueSlowDownEffect    4021597833\par
MessageQueueSocial    2732575264\par
MessageQueueSpaceMiningSellResource    3342459445\par
MessageQueueSpatialChat    3824677583\par
MessageQueueStartNpcConversation    2507923975\par
MessageQueueStopNpcConversation    1243325355\par
MessageQueueString    105261792\par
MessageQueueStringList    2744945116\par
MessageQueueTeleportAck    632824505\par
MessageQueueUpdateShipOnCollision    2074500897\par
MiningAsteroidController    314889606\par
Missile    857185398\par
MovementTable    2124090245\par
MultiListHandle    324511345\par
MultiListNode    712242119\par
NebulaShellShaderPrimitive    3087719658\par
NeighborObject    3373184078\par
NetLogConnection    3575101251\par
NetLogObserver    1939675461\par
NetworkController    22899554\par
NetworkHandler    1336419109\par
NetworkScene    2284437457\par
NetworkSetupData    3906613179\par
NewTicketActivityMessage    659508856\par
NewTicketActivityResponseMessage    1856253312\par
NewbieTutorialEnableHudElement    3392622884\par
NewbieTutorialHighlightUIElement    2555484916\par
NewbieTutorialRequest    2430427567\par
NewbieTutorialResponse    3397974957\par
NewbieTutorialSetToolbarElement    2671978265\par
NoBuildNotification    1775158186\par
NoRenderAppearance    3622827279\par
NoRenderAppearanceTemplate    1209063553\par
NonTrackingProjectile    777788417\par
ObjControllerMessage    2161008198\par
Object    3474813746\par
ObjectClientEffect    30278535\par
ObjectListCamera    3386992115\par
ObjectMenuSelectMessage    2471730423\par
ObjectNotification    3232980169\par
ObjectTemplate    1870174545\par
ObjectWatcherListCamera    162408511\par
OpenHolocronToPageMessage    2092322849\par
OutOfBandBase    2098687333\par
OverheadMap    442828103\par
OwnerProxyShader    1762481479\par
OwnerProxyShaderTemplate    2940858558\par
PaletteColorCustomizationVariable    928172890\par
ParametersMessage    1215714010\par
Particle    1285874935\par
ParticleAttachment    4106772577\par
ParticleAttachmentDescription    2988990723\par
ParticleDescription    1900209241\par
ParticleDescriptionMesh    3957720954\par
ParticleDescriptionQuad    29927646\par
ParticleEffectAppearance    3616346480\par
ParticleEffectAppearanceTemplate    3351885522\par
ParticleEmitter    1587435402\par
ParticleEmitterGroup    2911572180\par
ParticleEmitterShape    2058805103\par
ParticleEmitterShapeCircle    3797628730\par
ParticleEmitterShapeCube    404020478\par
ParticleEmitterShapeLine    641582640\par
ParticleEmitterShapeRectangle    1440817206\par
ParticleEmitterShapeSphere    383025679\par
ParticleEmitterShapeX    2525602501\par
ParticleGenerator    17102642\par
ParticleMesh    3346255142\par
ParticleQuad    761094786\par
PassthroughPlaybackAction    941345063\par
PathEdge    1724221572\par
PathGraph    1856991824\par
PathNode    2166320258\par
PermissionListCreateMessage    1391682744\par
PersistentCrcString    2921562283\par
PlanetAppearance    3529139803\par
PlanetAppearanceTemplate    2544123149\par
PlanetTravelPointListRequest    2520800589\par
PlanetTravelPointListResponse    1295143967\par
PlayClientEffectLocMessage    43294324\par
PlayClientEffectObjectMessage    2287289162\par
PlayClientEffectObjectTransformMessage    1331562934\par
PlayClientEventLocMessage    172892716\par
PlayClientEventObjectMessage    2944648178\par
PlayClientEventObjectTransformMessage    2419076985\par
PlayCutSceneMessage    4081293302\par
PlayMusicMessage    69668234\par
PlayParticleSystemAction    765978853\par
PlayParticleSystemActionTemplate    979857281\par
PlaySkeletalAnimationAction    2634159989\par
PlaySkeletalAnimationActionTemplate    2674077031\par
PlaybackAction    596321956\par
PlaybackActionTemplate    139876588\par
PlayerCreatureController    674200725\par
PlayerMoneyRequest    2635094689\par
PlayerMoneyResponse    914256766\par
PlayerObject    594400956\par
PlayerShipController    2918802218\par
PlayerShipTurretController    3719834903\par
PooledLogicalPacket    3756257279\par
PopulateMissionBrowserMessage    2295957596\par
PortalBarrierAppearance    878976425\par
PortalProperty    1665409967\par
PositionClientEffect    3863890021\par
PriorityBlendAnimation    2762665683\par
PriorityBlendAnimationTemplate    2702309736\par
ProceduralTerrainAppearance    2881412759\par
ProceduralTerrainAppearanceTemplate    3572147867\par
Projectile    2694958268\par
ProjectileBeam    786573951\par
ProjectileDynamics    3442052311\par
Property    958110025\par
ProxyLocalShaderPrimitive    1922555216\par
ProxySkeletalAnimationTemplate    1100331027\par
PulseDynamics    1783733834\par
PushCreatureAction    958281815\par
PushCreatureActionTemplate    505904119\par
RangedIntCustomizationVariable    963439677\par
RefreshCharacterList    3069445575\par
RemoteCreatureController    3830678839\par
RemoteDebug    952174318\par
RemoteShipController    2765407559\par
RemoveItemMessage    1142402955\par
RenderWorldCamera    4107966096\par
RenderWorldCommander    2641866784\par
RenderWorldServices    1973083681\par
RequestCategoriesMessage    4170768991\par
RequestCategoriesResponseMessage    1628737492\par
RequestGalaxyLoopTimes    2105814376\par
RequestUnstick    1420559875\par
RequestWatchObjectPath    3908993103\par
RequestWatchPathMap    3637504168\par
ResourceClassObject    765524150\par
ResourceContainerObject    3204553555\par
ResourceHarvesterActivatePageMessage    3734512102\par
ResourceListForSurveyMessage    2321854933\par
ReticleObject    767843434\par
RetrieveAuctionItemMessage    313578569\par
RetrieveAuctionItemResponseMessage    2493116300\par
RibbonAppearance    2744121232\par
RibbonTrailAppearance    489066307\par
RiderSpineTransformModifier    3247732033\par
RotationDynamics    3662362563\par
SUIMessage    165187679\par
Scene    1139941813\par
SceneCreateObjectByCrc    4270448106\par
SceneCreateObjectByName    527684865\par
SceneDestroyObject    1296422148\par
SceneEndBaselines    742613047\par
SearchKnowledgeBaseMessage    2519632795\par
SearchKnowledgeBaseResponseMessage    2092732263\par
SeesawDynamics    2020438803\par
SelectCharacter    3037302134\par
ServerProceduralTerrainAppearance    628342150\par
ServerProceduralTerrainAppearanceTemplate    1202300023\par
ServerSpaceTerrainAppearance    2315421088\par
ServerSpaceTerrainAppearanceTemplate    1890616473\par
ServerTimeMessage    784088025\par
ServerWeatherMessage    1214469866\par
Service    3768364986\par
SetTextureTest    1382945457\par
Shader    2019187662\par
SharedBattlefieldMarkerObjectTemplate    558969982\par
SharedBuildingObjectTemplate    1643792076\par
SharedCellObjectTemplate    2003275122\par
SharedConstructionContractObjectTemplate    1532124886\par
SharedCreatureObjectTemplate    3866549535\par
SharedDraftSchematicObjectTemplate    3804534123\par
SharedFactoryObjectTemplate    1904224185\par
SharedGroupObjectTemplate    3206232612\par
SharedGuildObjectTemplate    2029533449\par
SharedInstallationObjectTemplate    800521100\par
SharedIntangibleObjectTemplate    3736768433\par
SharedManufactureSchematicObjectTemplate    2709254731\par
SharedMissionObjectTemplate    323120507\par
SharedObjectTemplate    1668953787\par
SharedObjectTemplateClientData    669832051\par
SharedObjectTemplateInterface    2916970231\par
SharedPlayerObjectTemplate    2515529786\par
SharedRemoteDebugServerConnection    260705197\par
SharedResourceContainerObjectTemplate    974929744\par
SharedShipObjectTemplate    1254837833\par
SharedStaticObjectTemplate    890548695\par
SharedTangibleObjectTemplate    80162764\par
SharedTerrainSurfaceObjectTemplate    187337997\par
SharedUniverseObjectTemplate    2656762411\par
SharedVehicleObjectTemplate    3314082652\par
SharedWaypointObjectTemplate    2914100980\par
SharedWeaponObjectTemplate    2798305519\par
ShipChassis    3471564562\par
ShipChassisWritable    273323233\par
ShipComponentData    80108987\par
ShipComponentDataArmor    1227147534\par
ShipComponentDataBooster    2519389458\par
ShipComponentDataBridge    3797734037\par
ShipComponentDataCapacitor    552052009\par
ShipComponentDataCargoHold    2256179720\par
ShipComponentDataDroidInterface    2268675684\par
ShipComponentDataEngine    677412495\par
ShipComponentDataHangar    4242684431\par
ShipComponentDataModification    3648363183\par
ShipComponentDataReactor    2984372367\par
ShipComponentDataShield    3803086459\par
ShipComponentDataTargetingStation    385047787\par
ShipComponentDataWeapon    430272375\par
ShipComponentDescriptor    4013902605\par
ShipComponentDescriptorWritable    887070883\par
ShipController    1978616160\par
ShipObject    2034796776\par
ShipObjectDestruction    2545602015\par
ShipObjectInterface    46153894\par
ShipProjectile    2210697563\par
ShipTurretCamera    2052770892\par
ShipUpdateTransformCollisionMessage    1983269072\par
ShipUpdateTransformMessage    1979871161\par
ShipWeaponBarrelDynamics    3689334577\par
ShowAttachedObjectAction    1421180748\par
ShowAttachedObjectActionTemplate    3583618343\par
SkillManager    595764879\par
SkillObject    105592941\par
SlotCustomizationVariable    1787741266\par
SlotRule    537187478\par
SlottedContainer    2128027438\par
SlottedContainmentProperty    2512162570\par
SlowDownEffectMessage    700033236\par
SlowDownProperty    969426065\par
SpaceDeath    2249770526\par
SpaceTerrainAppearance    1582527680\par
SpaceTerrainAppearanceTemplate    4171874190\par
SpatialSubdivisionHandle    1340820507\par
SpeedSkeletalAnimation    2501017271\par
SpeedSkeletalAnimationTemplate    1316368830\par
SplitMeshTest    2485901590\par
SpringDynamics    3862336869\par
SpriteAppearance    3709342970\par
SpriteAppearanceTemplate    2961238027\par
StarAppearance    1796609457\par
StartTrailsAction    350781712\par
StartTrailsActionTemplate    3498643148\par
StateDynamics    524553442\par
StateHierarchyAnimationController    1104935121\par
StaticIndexBuffer    2148618548\par
StaticIndexBufferGraphicsData    388136767\par
StaticObject    4097725936\par
StaticShader    1132035340\par
StaticShaderGraphicsData    3855341165\par
StaticVertexBufferGraphicsData    1850296655\par
StdioFile    3736814746\par
StdioFileFactory    3811302231\par
StopActionTemplate    145371025\par
StopClientEffectObjectByLabelMessage    2909760294\par
StopTrailsActionTemplate    2906908262\par
StringIdParam    1671200146\par
StringParam    2003782270\par
StructurePlacementCamera    209769410\par
SuiClosedOk    3758939578\par
SuiCreatePage    1243889752\par
SuiCreatePageMessage    3561714265\par
SuiEventNotification    153957732\par
SuiForceClosePage    2567658976\par
SuiSetProperty    3799349647\par
SuiUpdatePageMessage    1597194998\par
SunTrackingObject    4241772427\par
SurveyMessage    2273278380\par
SwgCuiAllTargets    3013995010\par
SwgCuiAllTargetsGround    2468151207\par
SwgCuiAllTargetsSpace    2026631692\par
SwgCuiAuctionBid    2076679185\par
SwgCuiAuctionBuy    3643160666\par
SwgCuiAuctionDetails    2421504603\par
SwgCuiAuctionFilter    1021704826\par
SwgCuiAuctionList    1354757449\par
SwgCuiAuctionListBase    878790750\par
SwgCuiAuctionListPane    1917547792\par
SwgCuiAuctionListView    22120811\par
SwgCuiAuctionPaneTableModel    2587188982\par
SwgCuiAuctionSell    2360080476\par
SwgCuiAvatarCreation    2512197087\par
SwgCuiAvatarCustomizationBase    3093921063\par
SwgCuiAvatarCustomize2    3347303118\par
SwgCuiAvatarLocation2    1439191896\par
SwgCuiAvatarProfessionTemplateSelect    2221923380\par
SwgCuiAvatarSelection    3447411758\par
SwgCuiAvatarSetupProf    394660389\par
SwgCuiAvatarSimple    268425056\par
SwgCuiAvatarSummary    909383896\par
SwgCuiBiographyEdit    477333763\par
SwgCuiButtonBar    1860580195\par
SwgCuiCharacterSheet    3593021017\par
SwgCuiChatRooms    3370225816\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsBan    100891090\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsCreate    934808282\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsInvite    2747337366\par
SwgCuiChatRoomsWho    1101213696\par
SwgCuiChatWindow    473773929\par
SwgCuiClusterSelection    1004122579\par
SwgCuiCommandBrowser    877196234\par
SwgCuiCommandParserChatRoom    696257822\par
SwgCuiCommandParserDefault    3658439479\par
SwgCuiCommandParserNebula    1668337274\par
SwgCuiCommandParserShip    2233773053\par
SwgCuiCommandParserShipWeaponGroup    3190638365\par
SwgCuiCommandParserUI    84333813\par
SwgCuiCommandParserVideo    1173893784\par
SwgCuiCommunity    930833814\par
SwgCuiContainerProvider    3341525905\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderDefault    3531547674\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderDraft    3278332653\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderFilter    3306619878\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderPoi    1529759024\par
SwgCuiContainerProviderTrade    2828481577\par
SwgCuiCraftAssembly    1230075349\par
SwgCuiCraftAssemblyDialogOption    613701132\par
SwgCuiCraftCustomize    3726772675\par
SwgCuiCraftDraft    1573551746\par
SwgCuiCraftExperiment    365992252\par
SwgCuiCraftOption    1886020990\par
SwgCuiCraftSummary    15504197\par
SwgCuiCredits    3025273254\par
SwgCuiCustomize    2582192925\par
SwgCuiCybernetics    2423937005\par
SwgCuiDataStorage    3405154551\par
SwgCuiDebugInfoPage    4289543410\par
SwgCuiDeleteAvatarConfirmation    3097725116\par
SwgCuiDpsMeter    727225402\par
SwgCuiDroidCommand    3881076762\par
SwgCuiExamine    2508147957\par
SwgCuiExpMonitor    74774624\par
SwgCuiExpMonitorBox    3684511569\par
SwgCuiExpertise    76789156\par
SwgCuiGameMenu    4032237695\par
SwgCuiGroundRadar    1056047611\par
SwgCuiGroup    4104659143\par
SwgCuiGroupLootLottery    2779971767\par
SwgCuiHarassmentMessage    2986787672\par
SwgCuiHarassmentReport    1349086628\par
SwgCuiHighlight    2679218452\par
SwgCuiHud    1298055123\par
SwgCuiHudAction    3177075155\par
SwgCuiHudActionGround    2769445947\par
SwgCuiHudActionSpace    3216912727\par
SwgCuiHudGround    2856720859\par
SwgCuiHudSpace    2670282396\par
SwgCuiHudWindowManager    31178639\par
SwgCuiHudWindowManagerGround    3376974191\par
SwgCuiHudWindowManagerSpace    1627111244\par
SwgCuiHyperspaceMap    3004113041\par
SwgCuiIMEIndicator    2572619378\par
SwgCuiIMEIndicatorSpace    2851165369\par
SwgCuiIMEInput    3585667346\par
SwgCuiImageDesignerDesigner    3748752938\par
SwgCuiImageDesignerRecipient    2059796372\par
SwgCuiIncap    695664234\par
SwgCuiInventory    3580347538\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainer    466511241\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerDetails    26798586\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerDetailsTableModel    3056252041\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerFilter    1987001103\par
SwgCuiInventoryContainerIcons    2394245631\par
SwgCuiInventoryEquipment    2659599933\par
SwgCuiInventoryInfo    1503864289\par
SwgCuiKillMeter    2490815869\par
SwgCuiLoadingGround    487117330\par
SwgCuiLoadingSpace    774371271\par
SwgCuiLocationDisplay    2829802926\par
SwgCuiLocations    1265541252\par
SwgCuiLoginScreen    830813106\par
SwgCuiLootBox    3881848562\par
SwgCuiMfdStatus    910889361\par
SwgCuiMfdStatusBar    632439430\par
SwgCuiMissionBrowser    1471321251\par
SwgCuiMissionDetails    1705022384\par
SwgCuiNetStatus    773546014\par
SwgCuiNewMacro    2327354484\par
SwgCuiNews    3089839805\par
SwgCuiNotifications    6969576\par
SwgCuiNpeContinuation    2537811611\par
SwgCuiOpt    2474230595\par
SwgCuiOptAfk    4113329228\par
SwgCuiOptAlarm    1585765701\par
SwgCuiOptBase    1206065775\par
SwgCuiOptChat    1826655164\par
SwgCuiOptChatColors    3127936881\par
SwgCuiOptCombat    943565214\par
SwgCuiOptControls    3505131032\par
SwgCuiOptGraphics    3942037550\par
SwgCuiOptKeymap    2711961237\par
SwgCuiOptMisc    3066582404\par
SwgCuiOptSound    3358055862\par
SwgCuiOptTerrain    3433073739\par
SwgCuiOptUi    1443253120\par
SwgCuiPermissionList    2493062361\par
SwgCuiPersistentMessageBrowser    3083781542\par
SwgCuiPersistentMessageComposer    203659000\par
SwgCuiPlanetMap    505746300\par
SwgCuiProfessionTemplateSelect    1516013462\par
SwgCuiQuestAcceptance    3725842407\par
SwgCuiQuestHelper    377915710\par
SwgCuiQuestJournal    3502507847\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction    722496408\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction_Hopper    1231409395\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction_Quantity    3050455994\par
SwgCuiResourceExtraction_SetResource    1486108755\par
SwgCuiResourceSplitter    691485623\par
SwgCuiReticle    3099140776\par
SwgCuiRoadmap    2823252788\par
SwgCuiRoadmap_Profession    2496439839\par
SwgCuiSceneSelection    4113319101\par
SwgCuiServerDisconnected    3843510411\par
SwgCuiService    3884928508\par
SwgCuiShipChoose    128726726\par
SwgCuiShipComponentDetail    1156337966\par
SwgCuiShipComponentManagement    3651517891\par
SwgCuiShipReticle    588462216\par
SwgCuiShipView    455336754\par
SwgCuiSpaceAssignPlayerFormation    462637499\par
SwgCuiSpaceConversation    777633010\par
SwgCuiSpaceFlyOutPage    1939248046\par
SwgCuiSpaceGroup    3910490941\par
SwgCuiSpaceGroupLaunch    4203401193\par
SwgCuiSpaceMiningSale    270840716\par
SwgCuiSpaceMissileCount    2742601827\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadar    3288743575\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadarPlanar    1185536163\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadarSpherical2    1232736806\par
SwgCuiSpaceRadarSpherical    3460577588\par
SwgCuiSpaceZoneMap    2082538766\par
SwgCuiSplash    1229553837\par
SwgCuiStatusGround    3715332498\par
SwgCuiStatusSpace    2894529207\par
SwgCuiStructurePlacement    2888269075\par
SwgCuiSurvey    1266145345\par
SwgCuiSystemMessage    3592581894\par
SwgCuiTargets    815624007\par
SwgCuiTicketPurchase    735325030\par
SwgCuiTicketSubmission    3172784999\par
SwgCuiToolbar    131386803\par
SwgCuiTrade    1072161698\par
SwgCuiVendor    3538718779\par
SwgCuiVendorSetPrice    3516926705\par
SwgCuiWaypointMonitor    823145775\par
SwgCuiWaypointMonitorBox    4231922899\par
SwgCuiWeaponGroupAssignment    284707544\par
SwitchShader    2613262866\par
SwitchShaderTemplate    2360309397\par
SwitchTextureShader    3396854534\par
SwitchTextureShaderTemplate    1550710722\par
Switcher    3760489810\par
SwitcherTemplate    2215267573\par
SwooshAppearance    1845297546\par
SwooshAppearanceTemplate    2066450113\par
TailFileLogObserver    2540604206\par
TangibleObject    3335659148\par
TargaFormat    33921963\par
TargetPitchTransformModifier    2126598406\par
TaskConnection    3809369056\par
TemporaryAttachedObjectAction    1325066436\par
TemporaryAttachedObjectActionTemplate    175454911\par
TemporaryCrcString    2366040014\par
TerrainAppearance    2647690207\par
TerrainObject    2246239193\par
TestIoWin    130534768\par
TextAppearance    3174635074\par
ThirdPersonStage    3013039880\par
Thread    3163225479\par
ThrowSwordAction    1597828105\par
ThrowSwordActionTemplate    2911430889\par
TimeOfDayTest    3136865979\par
TimeScaleSkeletalAnimation    2528161983\par
TimeScaleSkeletalAnimationTemplate    1859777087\par
TimedBlendSkeletalAnimation    912822604\par
TimerObject    2658903742\par
TimerPlaybackAction    1216529927\par
TimerPlaybackActionTemplate    623643172\par
TrackAnimationController    3013158316\par
TrackingDynamics    3264244632\par
TrackingProjectile    2011575541\par
TradeCompleteMessage    3309437835\par
TrailAppearance    1112268031\par
TransformAnimationController    1031869009\par
TransformModifier    3217473203\par
TransformNameMap    2163165914\par
TriggerVolumeParam    2954993688\par
TurretObject    628943437\par
Tweakable    2851923169\par
UnAcceptTransactionMessage    3894297474\par
Universe    48711458\par
UniverseObject    4288733515\par
UpdateCellPermissionMessage    4128393628\par
UpdateContainmentMessage    1456201374\par
UpdateMissileMessage    304663809\par
UpdatePvpStatusMessage    144818470\par
UpdateTransformMessage    455407624\par
UpdateTransformWithParentMessage    3362237274\par
UseLightningAction    2354736098\par
UseLightningActionTemplate    2786725501\par
VectorParam    3871890683\par
VehicleHoverDynamics    3699261360\par
VehicleHoverDynamicsClient    3308362739\par
VehicleObject    407091182\par
VerifyPlayerNameMessage    3146558789\par
VerifyPlayerNameResponseMessage    4106524925\par
VerifyTradeMessage    2598520814\par
VertexBuffer    1240287969\par
VertexBufferBaseIterator    4146809550\par
VertexBufferReadIterator    3142999832\par
VertexBufferReadWriteIterator    4064735714\par
VertexBufferVectorGraphicsData    1795062227\par
VertexBufferWriteIterator    1789880168\par
Video    3104445368\par
VolumeContainer    2769895203\par
VolumeContainmentProperty    3136260185\par
WaitForBoltAction    3836172897\par
WaitForBoltActionTemplate    307395062\par
WanderController    2848134528\par
WatcherAction    3679226022\par
WatcherActionTemplate    1686940613\par
WaterManager    1931663261\par
WaterTest    3627690255\par
WaterTestAppearance    926033302\par
WaypointData    2096976613\par
WaypointDataBase    2144272320\par
WeaponObject    2910350101\par
WingDynamics    155792569\par
WrappedLogicalPacket    3154544503\par
YawSkeletalAnimation    64373729\par
YawSkeletalAnimationTemplate    2152918863\par
ZeroTranslationTransformModifier    2576387167\par
ZoneMapObject    840805598\par
}
 